# **ColBERT: Efficient and Effective Passage Search via Contextualized Late Interaction over BERT** 

Omar Khatab Stanford University okhatab@stanford.edu 

## **ABSTRACT** 

Recent progress in Natural Language Understanding (NLU) is driving fast-paced advances in Information Retrieval (IR), largely owed to fine-tuning deep language models (LMs) for document ranking. While remarkably effective, the ranking models based on these LMs increase computational cost by orders of magnitude over prior approaches, particularly as they must feed each query–document pair through a massive neural network to compute a single relevance score. To tackle this, we present ColBERT, a novel ranking model that adapts deep LMs (in particular, BERT) for efficient retrieval. ColBERT introduces a _late interaction_ architecture that independently encodes the query and the document using BERT and then employs a cheap yet powerful interaction step that models their fine-grained similarity. By delaying and yet retaining this finegranular interaction, ColBERT can leverage the expressiveness of deep LMs while simultaneously gaining the ability to pre-compute document representations offline, considerably speeding up query processing. Beyond reducing the cost of re-ranking the documents retrieved by a traditional model, ColBERT’s _pruning-friendly_ interaction mechanism enables leveraging vector-similarity indexes for end-to-end retrieval directly from a large document collection. We extensively evaluate ColBERT using two recent passage search datasets. Results show that ColBERT’s effectiveness is competitive with existing BERT-based models (and outperforms every nonBERT baseline), while executing two orders-of-magnitude faster and requiring four orders-of-magnitude fewer FLOPs per query. 

## **ACM Reference format:** 

Omar Khatab and Matei Zaharia. 2020. ColBERT: Efficient and Effective Passage Search via Contextualized Late Interaction over BERT. In _Proceedings of Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, Virtual Event, China, July 25–30, 2020 (SIGIR ’20),_ 10 pages. DOI: 10.1145/3397271.3401075 

## **1 INTRODUCTION** 

Over the past few years, the Information Retrieval (IR) community has witnessed the introduction of a host of neural ranking models, including DRMM [7], KNRM [4, 36], and Duet [20, 22]. In contrast 

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permited. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. _SIGIR ’20, Virtual Event, China_ 

© 2020 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. 978-1-4503-8016-4/20/07...$15.00 DOI: 10.1145/3397271.3401075 

Matei Zaharia Stanford University matei@cs.stanford.edu 

**==> picture [242 x 121] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
10 [5] Bag-of-Words (BoW) Model<br>BoW Model with NLU Augmentation<br>Neural Matching Model BERT-large<br>10 [4] Deep Language Model BERT-base<br>ColBERT (ours)<br>10 [3]<br>ColBERT (full retrieval)<br>10 [2] Duet fT+ConvKNRM<br>BM25 KNRMdoc2query DeepCTdocTTTTTquery ColBERT (re-rank)<br>10 [1]<br>0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.40<br>MRR@10<br>Query Latency (ms)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 1: Effectiveness (MRR@10) versus Mean Qery Latency (log-scale) for a number of representative ranking models on MS MARCO Ranking [24]. Te figure also shows ColBERT. Neural re-rankers run on top of the official BM25 top-1000 results and use a Tesla V100 GPU. Methodology and detailed results are in §4.** 

to prior learning-to-rank methods that rely on hand-crafed features, these models employ embedding-based representations of queries and documents and directly model _local interactions_ (i.e., fine-granular relationships) between their contents. Among them, a recent approach has emerged that _fine-tunes_ deep pre-trained language models (LMs) like ELMo [29] and BERT [5] for estimating relevance. By computing deeply-contextualized semantic representations of query–document pairs, these LMs help bridge the pervasive vocabulary mismatch [21, 42] between documents and queries [30]. Indeed, in the span of just a few months, a number of ranking models based on BERT have achieved state-of-the-art results on various retrieval benchmarks [3, 18, 25, 39] and have been proprietarily adapted for deployment by Google[1] and Bing[2] . 

However, the remarkable gains delivered by these LMs come at a steep increase in computational cost. Hofstater¨ _et al._ [9] and MacAvaney _et al._ [18] observe that BERT-based models in the literature are 100-1000× more computationally expensive than prior models—some of which are arguably _not_ inexpensive to begin with [13]. Tis quality–cost tradeoff is summarized by Figure 1, which compares two BERT-based rankers [25, 27] against a representative set of ranking models. Te figure uses MS MARCO Ranking [24], a recent collection of 9M passages and 1M queries from Bing’s logs. It reports retrieval effectiveness (MRR@10) on the official validation set as well as average query latency (log-scale) using a high-end server that dedicates one Tesla V100 GPU per query for neural re-rankers. Following the _re-ranking_ setup of MS MARCO, ColBERT (re-rank), the Neural Matching Models, and the Deep LMs re-rank the MS MARCO’s official top-1000 documents per query. 

> 1htps://blog.google/products/search/search-language-understanding-bert/ 

> 2htps://azure.microsof.com/en-us/blog/bing-delivers-its-largest-improvementin-search-experience-using-azure-gpus/ 

**==> picture [506 x 135] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
s s s s<br>CNN  /  Match Kernels / MLPMLP ∑<br>CNN  /  Match Kernels<br>MaxSim MaxSim MaxSim<br>Query Document Query Query Document Query Document<br>(a) Representation-based Similarity (b) Query-Document Interaction (c) All-to-all Interaction (d) Late Interaction<br>(e.g., DSSM, SNRM) (e.g., DRMM, KNRM, Conv-KNRM) (e.g., BERT) (i.e., the proposed ColBERT)<br>Document<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 2: Schematic diagrams illustrating query–document matching paradigms in neural IR. Te figure contrasts existing approaches (sub-figures (a), (b), and (c)) with the proposed late interaction paradigm (sub-figure (d)).** 

Other methods, including ColBERT (full retrieval), directly retrieve the top-1000 results from the entire collection. 

As the figure shows, BERT considerably improves search precision, raising MRR@10 by almost 7% against the best previous methods; simultaneously, it increases latency by up to tens of thousands of milliseconds even with a high-end GPU. Tis poses a challenging tradeoff since raising query response times by as litle as 100ms is known to impact user experience and even measurably diminish revenue [17]. To tackle this problem, recent work has started exploring using Natural Language Understanding (NLU) techniques to augment traditional retrieval models like BM25 [32]. For example, Nogueira _et al._ [26, 28] expand documents with NLU-generated queries before indexing with BM25 scores and Dai & Callan [2] replace BM25’s term frequency with NLU-estimated term importance. Despite successfully reducing latency, these approaches generally reduce precision substantially relative to BERT. 

To reconcile efficiency and contextualization in IR, we propose **ColBERT** , a ranking model based on **co** ntextualized **l** ate interaction over **BERT** . As the name suggests, ColBERT proposes a novel _late interaction_ paradigm for estimating relevance between a query _q_ and a document _d_ . Under late interaction, _q_ and _d_ are separately encoded into two sets of contextual embeddings, and relevance is evaluated using cheap and _pruning-friendly_ computations between both sets—that is, fast computations that enable ranking without exhaustively evaluating every possible candidate. 

Figure 2 contrasts our proposed late interaction approach with existing neural matching paradigms. On the lef, Figure 2 (a) illustrates _representation-focused_ rankers, which independently compute an embedding for _q_ and another for _d_ and estimate relevance as a single similarity score between two vectors [12, 41]. Moving to the right, Figure 2 (b) visualizes typical _interaction-focused_ rankers. Instead of summarizing _q_ and _d_ into individual embeddings, these rankers model word- and phrase-level relationships across _q_ and _d_ and match them using a deep neural network (e.g., with CNNs/MLPs [22] or kernels [36]). In the simplest case, they feed the neural network an _interaction matrix_ that reflects the similiarity between every pair of words across _q_ and _d_ . Further right, Figure 2 (c) illustrates a more powerful interaction-based paradigm, which models the interactions between words _within_ as well as _across q_ and _d_ at the same time, as in BERT’s transformer architecture [25]. 

Tese increasingly expressive architectures are in tension. While interaction-based models (i.e., Figure 2 (b) and (c)) tend to be superior for IR tasks [8, 21], a representation-focused model—by isolating the computations among _q_ and _d_ —makes it possible to precompute document representations offline [41], greatly reducing the computational load per query. In this work, we observe that the fine-grained matching of interaction-based models and the precomputation of document representations of representation-based models can be combined by retaining yet judiciously _delaying_ the query–document interaction. Figure 2 (d) illustrates an architecture that precisely does so. As illustrated, every query embedding interacts with all document embeddings via a MaxSim operator, which computes maximum similarity (e.g., cosine similarity), and the scalar outputs of these operators are summed across query terms. Tis paradigm allows ColBERT to exploit deep LM-based representations while shifing the cost of encoding documents offline and amortizing the cost of encoding the query once across all ranked documents. Additionally, it enables ColBERT to leverage vector-similarity search indexes (e.g., [1, 15]) to retrieve the top- _k_ results directly from a large document collection, substantially improving _recall_ over models that only re-rank the output of term-based retrieval. 

As Figure 1 illustrates, ColBERT can serve queries in tens or few hundreds of milliseconds. For instance, when used for reranking as in “ColBERT (re-rank)”, it delivers over 170× speedup (and requires 14,000× fewer FLOPs) relative to existing BERT-based models, while being more effective than every non-BERT baseline (§4.2 & 4.3). ColBERT’s indexing—the only time it needs to feed documents through BERT—is also practical: it can index the MS MARCO collection of 9M passages in about 3 hours using a single server with four GPUs (§4.5), retaining its effectiveness with a space footprint of as litle as few tens of GiBs. Our extensive ablation study (§4.4) shows that late interaction, its implementation via MaxSim operations, and crucial design choices within our BERTbased encoders are all essential to ColBERT’s effectiveness. 

Our main contributions are as follows. 

- (1) We propose _late interaction_ (§3.1) as a paradigm for efficient and effective neural ranking. 

- (2) We present ColBERT (§3.2 & 3.3), a highly-effective model that employs novel BERT-based query and document encoders within the late interaction paradigm. 

- (3) We show how to leverage ColBERT both for re-ranking on top of a term-based retrieval model (§3.5) and for searching a full collection using vector similarity indexes (§3.6). 

- (4) We evaluate ColBERT on MS MARCO and TREC CAR, two recent passage search collections. 

## **2 RELATED WORK** 

**Neural Matching Models.** Over the past few years, IR researchers have introduced numerous neural architectures for ranking. In this work, we compare against KNRM [4, 36], Duet [20, 22], ConvKNRM [4], and fastText+ConvKNRM [10]. KNRM proposes a differentiable kernel-pooling technique for extracting matching signals from an interaction matrix, while Duet combines signals from exact-match-based as well as embedding-based similarities for ranking. Introduced in 2018, ConvKNRM learns to match _n_ - grams in the query and the document. Lastly, fastText+ConvKNRM (abbreviated fT+ConvKNRM) tackles the absence of rare words from typical word embeddings lists by adopting sub-word token embeddings. 

In 2018, Zamani _et al._ [41] introduced SNRM, a representationfocused IR model that encodes each query and each document as a single, sparse high-dimensional vector of “latent terms”. By producing a sparse-vector representation for each document, SNRM is able to use a traditional IR inverted index for representing documents, allowing fast end-to-end retrieval. Despite highly promising results and insights, SNRM’s effectiveness is substantially outperformed by the state of the art on the datasets with which it was evaluated (e.g., see [18, 38]). While SNRM employs sparsity to allow using inverted indexes, we relax this assumption and compare a (dense) BERT-based representation-focused model against our late-interaction ColBERT in our ablation experiments in §4.4. For a detailed overview of existing neural ranking models, we refer the readers to two recent surveys of the literature [8, 21]. 

**Language Model Pretraining for IR.** Recent work in NLU emphasizes the importance pre-training language representation models in an unsupervised fashion before subsequently fine-tuning them on downstream tasks. A notable example is BERT [5], a bidirectional transformer-based language model whose fine-tuning advanced the state of the art on various NLU benchmarks. Nogueira _et al._ [25], MacAvaney _et al._ [18], and Dai & Callan [3] investigate incorporating such LMs (mainly BERT, but also ELMo [29]) on different ranking datasets. As illustrated in Figure 2 (c), the common approach (and the one adopted by Nogueira _et al._ on MS MARCO and TREC CAR) is to feed the query–document pair through BERT and use an MLP on top of BERT’s [CLS] output token to produce a relevance score. Subsequent work by Nogueira _et al._ [27] introduced duoBERT, which fine-tunes BERT to compare the relevance of a _pair_ of documents given a query. Relative to their single-document BERT, this gives duoBERT a 1% MRR@10 advantage on MS MARCO while increasing the cost by at least 1.4×. 

**BERT Optimizations.** As discussed in §1, these LM-based rankers can be highly expensive in practice. While ongoing efforts in the NLU literature for distilling [14, 33], compressing [40], and pruning [19] BERT can be instrumental in narrowing this gap, 

**==> picture [230 x 138] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
score<br>MaxSim MaxSim MaxSim<br>Query Encoder,  fQ Document Encoder,  fD<br>Query Document<br>Offline Indexing<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 3: Te general architecture of ColBERT given a query** _q_ **and a document** _d_ **.** 

they generally achieve significantly smaller speedups than our redesigned architecture for IR, due to their generic nature, and more aggressive optimizations ofen come at the cost of lower quality. 

**Efficient NLU-based Models.** Recently, a direction emerged that employs expensive NLU computation offline. Tis includes doc2query [28] and DeepCT [2]. Te doc2query model expands each document with a pre-defined number of synthetic queries queries generated by a seq2seq transformer model that is trained to generate _queries_ given a document. It then relies on a BM25 index for retrieval from the (expanded) documents. DeepCT uses BERT to produce the _term frequency_ component of BM25 in a contextaware manner, essentially representing a feasible realization of the term-independence assumption with neural networks [23]. Lastly, docTTTTTquery [26] is identical to doc2query except that it finetunes a pre-trained model (namely, T5 [31]) for generating the predicted queries. 

Concurrently with our drafing of this paper, Hofstater¨ _et al._ [11] published their Transformer-Kernel (TK) model. At a high level, TK improves the KNRM architecture described earlier: while KNRM employs kernel pooling on top of word-embedding-based interaction, TK uses a Transformer [34] component for contextually encoding queries and documents before kernel pooling. TK establishes a new state-of-the-art for non-BERT models on MS MARCO (Dev); however, the best non-ensemble MRR@10 it achieves is 31% while ColBERT reaches up to 36%. Moreover, due to indexing document representations offline and employing a MaxSim-based late interaction mechanism, ColBERT is much more scalable, enabling end-to-end retrieval which is not supported by TK. 

## **3 COLBERT** 

ColBERT prescribes a simple framework for balancing the quality and cost of neural IR, particularly deep language models like BERT. As introduced earlier, delaying the query–document interaction can facilitate cheap neural re-ranking (i.e., through pre-computation) and even support practical end-to-end neural retrieval (i.e., through pruning via vector-similarity search). ColBERT addresses how to do so while still preserving the effectiveness of state-of-the-art models, which condition the bulk of their computations on the joint query–document pair. 

Even though ColBERT’s late-interaction framework can be applied to a wide variety of architectures (e.g., CNNs, RNNs, transformers, etc.), we choose to focus this work on bi-directional transformerbased encoders (i.e., BERT) owing to their state-of-the-art effectiveness yet very high computational cost. 

## **3.1 Architecture** 

Figure 3 depicts the general architecture of ColBERT, which comprises: (a) a query encoder _fQ_ , (b) a document encoder _fD_ , and (c) the late interaction mechanism. Given a query _q_ and document _d_ , _fQ_ encodes _q_ into a bag of fixed-size embeddings _Eq_ while _fD_ encodes _d_ into another bag _Ed_ . Crucially, each embeddings in _Eq_ and _Ed_ is _contextualized_ based on the other terms in _q_ or _d_ , respectively. We describe our BERT-based encoders in §3.2. 

Using _Eq_ and _Ed_ , ColBERT computes the relevance score between _q_ and _d_ via late interaction, which we define as a summation of maximum similarity (MaxSim) operators. In particular, we find the maximum cosine similarity of each _v_ ∈ _Eq_ with vectors in _Ed_ , and combine the outputs via summation. Besides cosine, we also evaluate squared L2 distance as a measure of vector similarity. Intuitively, this interaction mechanism sofly _searches_ for each query term _tq_ —in a manner that reflects its context in the query—against the document’s embeddings, quantifying the strength of the “match” via the largest similarity score between _tq_ and a document term _td_ . Given these term scores, it then estimates the document relevance by summing the matching evidence across all query terms. 

While more sophisticated matching is possible with other choices such as deep convolution and atention layers (i.e., as in typical interaction-focused models), a summation of maximum similarity computations has two distinctive characteristics. First, it stands out as a particularly cheap interaction mechanism, as we examine its FLOPs in §4.2. Second, and more importantly, it is amenable to highly-efficient pruning for top- _k_ retrieval, as we evaluate in §4.3. Tis enables using vector-similarity algorithms for skipping documents without materializing the full interaction matrix or even considering each document in isolation. Other cheap choices (e.g., a summation of _average_ similarity scores, instead of maximum) are possible; however, many are less amenable to pruning. In §4.4, we conduct an extensive ablation study that empirically verifies the advantage of our MaxSim-based late interaction against alternatives. 

deep transformer architecture, which computes a contextualized representation of each token. 

We denote the padding with masked tokens as **query augmentation** , a step that allows BERT to produce query-based embeddings at the positions corresponding to these masks. Qery augmentation is intended to serve as a sof, differentiable mechanism for learning to expand queries with new terms or to re-weigh existing terms based on their importance for matching the query. As we show in §4.4, this operation is essential for ColBERT’s effectiveness. 

Given BERT’s representation of each token, our encoder passes the contextualized output representations through a linear layer with no activations. Tis layer serves to control the dimension of ColBERT’s embeddings, producing _m_ -dimensional embeddings for the layer’s output size _m_ . As we discuss later in more detail, we typically fix _m_ to be much smaller than BERT’s fixed hidden dimension. 

While ColBERT’s embedding dimension has limited impact on the efficiency of query encoding, this step is crucial for controlling the space footprint of documents, as we show in §4.5. In addition, it can have a significant impact on query execution time, particularly the time taken for transferring the document representations onto the GPU from system memory (where they reside before processing a query). In fact, as we show in §4.2, gathering, stacking, and transferring the embeddings from CPU to GPU can be the most expensive step in re-ranking with ColBERT. Finally, the output embeddings are normalized so each has L2 norm equal to one. Te result is that the dot-product of any two embeddings becomes equivalent to their cosine similarity, falling in the [−1, 1] range. 

**Document Encoder.** Our document encoder has a very similar architecture. We first segment a document _d_ into its constituent tokens _d_ 1 _d_ 2... _dm_ , to which we prepend BERT’s start token [CLS] followed by our special token [D] that indicates a document sequence. Unlike queries, we do not append [mask] tokens to documents. After passing this input sequence through BERT and the subsequent linear layer, the document encoder filters out the embeddings corresponding to punctuation symbols, determined via a pre-defined list. Tis filtering is meant to reduce the number of embeddings per document, as we hypothesize that (even contextualized) embeddings of punctuation are unnecessary for effectiveness. 

In summary, given _q_ = _q_ 0 _q_ 1... _ql_ and _d_ = _d_ 0 _d_ 1... _dn_ , we compute the bags of embeddings _Eq_ and _Ed_ in the following manner, where # refers to the [mask] tokens: 

## **3.2 Qery & Document Encoders** 

Prior to late interaction, ColBERT encodes each query or document into a bag of embeddings, employing BERT-based encoders. We share a single BERT model among our query and document encoders but distinguish input sequences that correspond to queries and documents by prepending a special token [Q] to queries and another token [D] to documents. 

**Qery Encoder.** Given a textual query _q_ , we tokenize it into its BERT-based WordPiece [35] tokens _q_ 1 _q_ 2... _ql_ . We prepend the token [Q] to the query. We place this token right afer BERT’s sequencestart token [CLS]. If the query has fewer than a pre-defined number of tokens _Nq_ , we pad it with BERT’s special [mask] tokens up to length _Nq_ (otherwise, we truncate it to the first _Nq_ tokens). Tis padded sequence of input tokens is then passed into BERT’s 

**==> picture [232 x 24] intentionally omitted <==**

## **3.3 Late Interaction** 

Given the representation of a query _q_ and a document _d_ , the relevance score of _d_ to _q_ , denoted as _Sq_ , _d_ , is estimated via late interaction between their bags of contextualized embeddings. As mentioned before, this is conducted as a sum of maximum similarity computations, namely cosine similarity (implemented as dot-products due to the embedding normalization) or squared L2 distance. 

**==> picture [179 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

ColBERT is differentiable end-to-end. We fine-tune the BERT encoders and train from scratch the additional parameters (i.e., the linear layer and the [Q] and [D] markers’ embeddings) using the Adam [16] optimizer. Notice that our interaction mechanism has no trainable parameters. Given a triple ⟨ _q_ , _d_[+] , _d_[−] ⟩ with query _q_ , positive document _d_[+] and negative document _d_[−] , ColBERT is used to produce a score for each document individually and is optimized via pairwise sofmax cross-entropy loss over the computed scores of _d_[+] and _d_[−] . 

## **3.4 Offline Indexing: Computing & Storing Document Embeddings** 

By design, ColBERT isolates almost all of the computations between queries and documents, largely to enable pre-computing document representations offline. At a high level, our indexing procedure is straight-forward: we proceed over the documents in the collection in batches, running our document encoder _fD_ on each batch and storing the output embeddings per document. Although indexing a set of documents is an offline process, we incorporate a few simple optimizations for enhancing the throughput of indexing. As we show in §4.5, these optimizations can considerably reduce the offline cost of indexing. 

To begin with, we exploit multiple GPUs, if available, for faster encoding of batches of documents in parallel. When batching, we pad all documents to the maximum length of a document _within_ the batch.[3] To make capping the sequence length on a per-batch basis more effective, our indexer proceeds through documents in groups of _B_ (e.g., _B_ = 100,000) documents. It sorts these documents by length and then feeds batches of _b_ (e.g., _b_ = 128) documents of comparable length through our encoder. Tis length-based bucketing is sometimes refered to as a BucketIterator in some libraries (e.g., allenNLP). Lastly, while most computations occur on the GPU, we found that a non-trivial portion of the indexing time is spent on pre-processing the text sequences, primarily BERT’s WordPiece tokenization. Exploiting that these operations are independent across documents in a batch, we parallelize the pre-processing across the available CPU cores. 

Once the document representations are produced, they are saved to disk using 32-bit or 16-bit values to represent each dimension. As we describe in §3.5 and 3.6, these representations are either simply loaded from disk for ranking or are subsequently indexed for vector-similarity search, respectively. 

## **3.5 Top-** _k_ **Re-ranking with ColBERT** 

Recall that ColBERT can be used for re-ranking the output of another retrieval model, typically a term-based model, or directly for end-to-end retrieval from a document collection. In this section, we discuss how we use ColBERT for ranking a small set of _k_ (e.g., _k_ = 1000) documents given a query _q_ . Since _k_ is small, we rely on batch computations to exhaustively score each document 

3Te public BERT implementations we saw simply pad to a pre-defined length. 

(unlike our approach in §3.6). To begin with, our query serving subsystem loads the indexed documents representations into memory, representing each document as a matrix of embeddings. 

Given a query _q_ , we compute its bag of contextualized embeddings _Eq_ (Equation 1) and, concurrently, gather the document representations into a 3-dimensional tensor _D_ consisting of _k_ document matrices. We pad the _k_ documents to their maximum length to facilitate batched operations, and move the tensor _D_ to the GPU’s memory. On the GPU, we compute a batch dot-product of _Eq_ and _D_ , possibly over multiple mini-batches. Te output materializes a 3-dimensional tensor that is a collection of cross-match matrices between _q_ and each document. To compute the score of each document, we reduce its matrix across document terms via a max-pool (i.e., representing an exhaustive implementation of our MaxSim computation) and reduce across query terms via a summation. Finally, we sort the _k_ documents by their total scores. 

Relative to existing neural rankers (especially, but not exclusively, BERT-based ones), this computation is very cheap that, in fact, its cost is dominated by the cost of gathering and transferring the pre-computed embeddings. To illustrate, ranking _k_ documents via typical BERT rankers requires feeding BERT _k_ different inputs each of length _l_ = | _q_ | + | _di_ | for query _q_ and documents _di_ , where atention has quadratic cost in the length of the sequence. In contrast, ColBERT feeds BERT only a single, much shorter sequence of length _l_ = | _q_ |. Consequently, ColBERT is not only cheaper, it also scales much beter with _k_ as we examine in §4.2. 

## **3.6 End-to-end Top-** _k_ **Retrieval with ColBERT** 

As mentioned before, ColBERT’s late-interaction operator is specifically designed to enable end-to-end retrieval from a large collection, largely to improve recall relative to term-based retrieval approaches. Tis section is concerned with cases where the number of documents to be ranked is too large for exhaustive evaluation of each possible candidate document, particularly when we are only interested in the highest scoring ones. Concretely, we focus here on retrieving the top- _k_ results directly from a large document collection with _N_ (e.g., _N_ = 10, 000, 000) documents, where _k_ ≪ _N_ . 

To do so, we leverage the pruning-friendly nature of the MaxSim operations at the backbone of late interaction. Instead of applying MaxSim between one of the query embeddings and all of one document’s embeddings, we can use fast vector-similarity data structures to efficiently conduct this search between the query embedding and _all_ document embeddings across the full collection. For this, we employ an off-the-shelf library for large-scale vector-similarity search, namely faiss [15] from Facebook.[4] In particular, at the end of offline indexing (§3.4), we maintain a mapping from each embedding to its document of origin and then index all document embeddings into faiss. 

Subsequently, when serving queries, we use a two-stage procedure to retrieve the top- _k_ documents from the entire collection. Both stages rely on ColBERT’s scoring: the first is an approximate stage aimed at filtering while the second is a refinement stage. For the first stage, we concurrently issue _Nq_ vector-similarity queries (corresponding to each of the embeddings in _Eq_ ) onto our faiss index. Tis retrieves the top- _k_[′] (e.g., _k_[′] = _k_ /2) matches for that vector 

> 4htps://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss 

over all document embeddings. We map each of those to its document of origin, producing _Nq_ × _k_[′] document IDs, only _K_ ≤ _Nq_ × _k_[′] of which are unique. Tese _K_ documents likely contain one or more embeddings that are highly similar to the query embeddings. For the second stage, we refine this set by exhaustively re-ranking _only_ those _K_ documents in the usual manner described in §3.5. 

In our faiss-based implementation, we use an IVFPQ index (“inverted file with product quantization”). Tis index partitions the embedding space into _P_ (e.g., _P_ = 1000) cells based on _k_ -means clustering and then assigns each document embedding to its nearest cell based on the selected vector-similarity metric. For serving queries, when searching for the top- _k_[′] matches for a single query embedding, only the nearest _p_ (e.g., _p_ = 10) partitions are searched. To improve memory efficiency, every embedding is divided into _s_ (e.g., _s_ = 16) sub-vectors, each represented using one byte. Moreover, the index conducts the similarity computations in this compressed domain, leading to cheaper computations and thus faster search. 

## **4 EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION** 

We now turn our atention to empirically testing ColBERT, addressing the following research questions. 

**RQ** 1: In a typical re-ranking setup, how well can ColBERT bridge the existing gap (highlighted in §1) between highly-efficient and highly-effective neural models? (§4.2) 

**RQ** 2: Beyond re-ranking, can ColBERT effectively support endto-end retrieval directly from a large collection? (§4.3) 

**RQ** 3: What does each component of ColBERT (e.g., late interaction, query augmentation) contribute to its quality? (§4.4) 

**RQ** 4: What are ColBERT’s indexing-related costs in terms of offline computation and memory overhead? (§4.5) 

## **4.1 Methodology** 

_4.1.1 Datasets & Metrics._ Similar to related work [2, 27, 28], we conduct our experiments on the MS MARCO Ranking [24] (henceforth, MS MARCO) and TREC Complex Answer Retrieval (TREC-CAR) [6] datasets. Both of these recent datasets provide large training data of the scale that facilitates training and evaluating deep neural networks. We describe both in detail below. 

**MS MARCO.** MS MARCO is a dataset (and a corresponding competition) introduced by Microsof in 2016 for reading comprehension and adapted in 2018 for retrieval. It is a collection of 8.8M passages from Web pages, which were gathered from Bing’s results to 1M real-world queries. Each query is associated with _sparse_ relevance judgements of one (or very few) documents marked as relevant and no documents explicitly indicated as irrelevant. Per the official evaluation, we use MRR@10 to measure effectiveness. 

We use three sets of queries for evaluation. Te official development and evaluation sets contain roughly 7k queries. However, the relevance judgements of the evaluation set are held-out by Microsof and effectiveness results can only be obtained by submiting to the competition’s organizers. We submited our main re-ranking ColBERT model for the results in §4.2. In addition, the collection includes roughly 55k queries (with labels) that are provided as additional validation data. We re-purpose a random sample of 5k queries among those (i.e., ones not in our development or training 

sets) as a “local” evaluation set. Along with the official development set, we use this held-out set for testing our models as well as baselines in §4.3. We do so to avoid submiting multiple variants of the same model at once, as the organizers discourage too many submissions by the same team. 

**TREC CAR.** Introduced by Dietz [6] _et al._ in 2017, TREC CAR is a synthetic dataset based on Wikipedia that consists of about 29M passages. Similar to related work [25], we use the first four of five pre-defined folds for training and the fifh for validation. Tis amounts to roughly 3M queries generated by concatenating the title of a Wikipedia page with the heading of one of its sections. Tat section’s passages are marked as relevant to the corresponding query. Our evaluation is conducted on the test set used in TREC 2017 CAR, which contains 2,254 queries. 

_4.1.2 Implementation._ Our ColBERT models are implemented using Python 3 and PyTorch 1. We use the popular transformers[5] library for the pre-trained BERT model. Similar to [25], we fine-tune all ColBERT models with learning rate 3 × 10[−][6] with a batch size 32. We fix the number of embeddings per query at _Nq_ = 32. We set our ColBERT embedding dimension _m_ to be 128; §4.5 demonstrates ColBERT’s robustness to a wide range of embedding dimensions. 

For MS MARCO, we initialize the BERT components of the ColBERT query and document encoders using Google’s official pretrained BERTbase model. Further, we train all models for 200k iterations. For TREC CAR, we follow related work [2, 25] and use a different pre-trained model to the official ones. To explain, the official BERT models were pre-trained on Wikipedia, which is the source of TREC CAR’s training and test sets. To avoid leaking test data into train, Nogueira and Cho’s [25] pre-train a randomly-initialized BERT model on the Wiki pages corresponding to training subset of TREC CAR. Tey release their BERTlarge pre-trained model, which we fine-tune for ColBERT’s experiments on TREC CAR. Since finetuning this model is significantly slower than BERTbase, we train on TREC CAR for only 125k iterations. 

In our re-ranking results, unless stated otherwise, we use 4 bytes per dimension in our embeddings and employ cosine as our vectorsimilarity function. For end-to-end ranking, we use (squared) L2 distance, as we found our faiss index was faster at L2-based retrieval. For our faiss index, we set the number of partitions to _P_ =2,000, and search the nearest _p_ = 10 to each query embedding to retrieve _k_[′] = _k_ = 1000 document vectors per query embedding. We divide each embedding into _s_ = 16 sub-vectors, each encoded using one byte. To represent the index used for the second stage of our end-to-end retrieval procedure, we use 16-bit values per dimension. 

_4.1.3 Hardware & Time Measurements._ To evaluate the latency of neural re-ranking models in §4.2, we use a single Tesla V100 GPU that has 32 GiBs of memory on a server with two Intel Xeon Gold 6132 CPUs, each with 14 physical cores (24 hyperthreads), and 469 GiBs of RAM. For the mostly CPU-based retrieval experiments in §4.3 and the indexing experiments in §4.5, we use another server with the same CPU and system memory specifications but which has four Titan V GPUs atached, each with 12 GiBs of memory. Across all experiments, only one GPU is dedicated per query for 

5htps://github.com/huggingface/transformers 

|**Method**|**MRR@10(Dev)**|**MRR@10(Eval)**|**Re-ranking Latency (ms)**|**FLOPs/query**|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|BM25 (ofcial)|16.7|16.5|-|-|
|KNRM|19.8|19.8|3|592M (0.085×)|
|Duet|24.3|24.5|22|159B (23×)|
|fastText+ConvKNRM|29.0|27.7|28|78B (11×)|
|BERTbase [25]|34.7|-|10,700|97T (13,900×)|
|BERTbase (our training)|36.0|-|10,700|97T (13,900×)|
|BERTlarge [25]|36.5|35.9|32,900|340T (48,600×)|
|ColBERT (over BERTbase)|34.9|34.9|61|7B (1×)|



**Table 1: “Re-ranking” results on MS MARCO. Each neural model re-ranks the official top-1000 results produced by BM25. Latency is reported for re-ranking only. To obtain the end-to-end latency in Figure 1, we add the BM25 latency from Table 2.** 

|**Method**|**MRR@10(Dev)**|**MRR@10(Local Eval)**|**Latency (ms)**|**Recall@50**|**Recall@200**|**Recall@1000**|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|BM25 (ofcial)|16.7|-|-|-|-|81.4|
|BM25 (Anserini)|18.7|19.5|62|59.2|73.8|85.7|
|doc2query|21.5|22.8|85|64.4|77.9|89.1|
|DeepCT|24.3|-|62_(est.)_|69 [2]|82 [2]|91 [2]|
|docTTTTTquery|27.7|28.4|87|75.6|86.9|94.7|
|ColBERTL2 (re-rank)|34.8|36.4|-|75.3|80.5|81.4|
|ColBERTL2 (end-to-end)|36.0|36.7|458|82.9|92.3|96.8|



**Table 2: End-to-end retrieval results on MS MARCO. Each model retrieves the top-1000 documents per query** _**directly**_ **from the entire 8.8M document collection.** 

retrieval (i.e., for methods with neural computations) but we use up to all four GPUs during indexing. 

## **4.2 Qality–Cost Tradeoff: Top-** _k_ **Re-ranking** 

In this section, we examine ColBERT’s efficiency and effectiveness at re-ranking the top- _k_ results extracted by a bag-of-words retrieval model, which is the most typical seting for testing and deploying neural ranking models. We begin with the MS MARCO dataset. We compare against KNRM, Duet, and fastText+ConvKNRM, a representative set of neural matching models that have been previously tested on MS MARCO. In addition, we compare against the natural adaptation of BERT for ranking by Nogueira and Cho [25], in particular, BERTbase and its deeper counterpart BERTlarge. We also report results for “BERTbase (our training)”, which is based on Nogueira and Cho’s base model (including hyperparameters) but is trained with the same loss function as ColBERT (§3.3) for 200k iterations, allowing for a more direct comparison of the results. 

We report the competition’s official metric, namely MRR@10, on the validation set (Dev) and the evaluation set (Eval). We also report the re-ranking latency, which we measure using a single Tesla V100 GPU, and the FLOPs per query for each neural ranking model. For ColBERT, our reported latency subsumes the entire computation from gathering the document representations, moving them to the GPU, tokenizing then encoding the query, and applying late interaction to compute document scores. For the baselines, we measure the scoring computations on the GPU and exclude the CPU-based text preprocessing (similar to [9]). In principle, the baselines can pre-compute the majority of this preprocessing (e.g., document tokenization) offline and parallelize the rest across 

documents online, leaving only a negligible cost. We estimate the FLOPs per query of each model using the torchprofile[6] library. 

We now proceed to study the results, which are reported in Table 1. To begin with, we notice the fast progress from KNRM in 2017 to the BERT-based models in 2019, manifesting itself in over 16% increase in MRR@10. As described in §1, the simultaneous increase in computational cost is difficult to miss. Judging by their rather monotonic patern of increasingly larger cost and higher effectiveness, these results appear to paint a picture where expensive models are necessary for high-quality ranking. 

In contrast with this trend, ColBERT (which employs late interaction over BERTbase) performs no worse than the original adaptation of BERTbase for ranking by Nogueira and Cho [25, 27] and is only marginally less effective than BERTlarge and our training of BERTbase (described above). While highly competitive in effectiveness, ColBERT is orders of magnitude cheaper than BERTbase, in particular, by over 170× in latency and 13,900× in FLOPs. Tis highlights the expressiveness of our proposed late interaction mechanism, particularly when coupled with a powerful pre-trained LM like BERT. While ColBERT’s re-ranking latency is slightly higher than the non-BERT re-ranking models shown (i.e., by 10s of milliseconds), this difference is explained by the time it takes to gather, stack, and transfer the document embeddings to the GPU. In particular, the query encoding and interaction in ColBERT consume only 13 milliseconds of its total execution time. We note that ColBERT’s latency and FLOPs can be considerably reduced by padding queries to a shorter length, using smaller vector dimensions (the MRR@10 of which is tested in §4.5), employing quantization of the document 

6htps://github.com/mit-han-lab/torchprofile 

vectors, and storing the embeddings on GPU if sufficient memory exists. We leave these directions for future work. 

**==> picture [242 x 138] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
10 [9] BERT base  (our training)<br>2000<br>ColBERT<br>10 [8] 500<br>1000<br>100<br>10 [7] 50 200<br>20<br>10 [6] k=10<br>10 [5]<br>10 [4] k=10 20 50 100 500 2000<br>200 1000<br>10 [3]<br>0.27 0.29 0.31 0.33 0.35 0.37<br>MRR@10<br>Million FLOPs (log-scale)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 4: FLOPs (in millions) and MRR@10 as functions of the re-ranking depth** _k_ **. Since the official BM25 ranking is not ordered, the initial top-** _k_ **retrieval is conducted with Anserini’s BM25.** 

Diving deeper into the quality–cost tradeoff between BERT and ColBERT, Figure 4 demonstrates the relationships between FLOPs and effectiveness (MRR@10) as a function of the re-ranking depth _k_ when re-ranking the top- _k_ results by BM25, comparing ColBERT and BERTbase (our training). We conduct this experiment on MS MARCO (Dev). We note here that as the official top-1000 ranking does not provide the BM25 order (and also lacks documents beyond the top-1000 per query), the models in this experiment re-rank the Anserini [37] toolkit’s BM25 output. Consequently, both MRR@10 values at _k_ = 1000 are slightly higher from those reported in Table 1. 

Studying the results in Figure 4, we notice that not only is ColBERT much cheaper than BERT for the same model size (i.e., 12layer “base” transformer encoder), it also scales beter with the number of ranked documents. In part, this is because ColBERT only needs to process the query once, irrespective of the number of documents evaluated. For instance, at _k_ = 10, BERT requires nearly 180× more FLOPs than ColBERT; at _k_ = 1000, BERT’s overhead jumps to 13,900×. It then reaches 23,000× at _k_ = 2000. In fact, our informal experimentation shows that this orders-of-magnitude gap in FLOPs makes it practical to run ColBERT entirely on the CPU, although CPU-based re-ranking lies outside our scope. 

|Method|MAP|MRR@10|
|---|---|---|
|BM25 (Anserini)|15.3|-|
|doc2query|18.1|-|
|DeepCT|24.6|33.2|
|BM25 + BERTbase|31.0|-|
|BM25 + BERTlarge|33.5|-|
|BM25 + ColBERT|31.3|44.3|



**Table 3: Results on TREC CAR.** 

Having studied our results on MS MARCO, we now consider TREC CAR, whose official metric is MAP. Results are summarized in Table 3, which includes a number of important baselines (BM25, doc2query, and DeepCT) in addition to re-ranking baselines that 

have been tested on this dataset. Tese results directly mirror those with MS MARCO. 

## **4.3 End-to-end Top-** _k_ **Retrieval** 

Beyond cheap re-ranking, ColBERT is amenable to top- _k_ retrieval directly from a full collection. Table 2 considers full retrieval, wherein each model retrieves the top-1000 documents directly from MS MARCO’s 8.8M documents per query. In addition to MRR@10 and latency in milliseconds, the table reports Recall@50, Recall@200, and Recall@1000, important metrics for a full-retrieval model that essentially filters down a large collection on a per-query basis. 

We compare against BM25, in particular MS MARCO’s official BM25 ranking as well as a well-tuned baseline based on the Anserini toolkit.[7] While many other traditional models exist, we are not aware of any that substantially outperform Anserini’s BM25 implementation (e.g., see RM3 in [28], LMDir in [2], or Microsof’s proprietary feature-based RankSVM on the leaderboard). 

We also compare against doc2query, DeepCT, and docTTTTTquery. All three rely on a traditional bag-of-words model (primarily BM25) for retrieval. Crucially, however, they re-weigh the frequency of terms per document and/or expand the set of terms in each document before building the BM25 index. In particular, doc2query expands each document with a pre-defined number of synthetic queries generated by a seq2seq transformer model (which docTTTTquery replaced with a pre-trained language model, T5 [31]). In contrast, DeepCT uses BERT to produce the term frequency component of BM25 in a context-aware manner. 

For the latency of Anserini’s BM25, doc2query, and docTTTTquery, we use the authors’ [26, 28] Anserini-based implementation. While this implementation supports multi-threading, it only utilizes parallelism across different queries. We thus report single-threaded latency for these models, noting that simply parallelizing their computation over _shards_ of the index can substantially decrease their already-low latency. For DeepCT, we only estimate its latency using that of BM25 (as denoted by _(est.)_ in the table), since DeepCT re-weighs BM25’s term frequency without modifying the index otherwise.[8] As discussed in §4.1, we use ColBERTL2 for end-toend retrieval, which employs negative squared L2 distance as its vector-similarity function. For its latency, we measure the time for faiss-based candidate filtering and the subsequent re-ranking. In this experiment, faiss uses all available CPU cores. 

Looking at Table 2, we first see Anserini’s BM25 baseline at 18.7 MRR@10, noticing its very low latency as implemented in Anserini (which extends the well-known Lucene system), owing to both very cheap operations and decades of bag-of-words top- _k_ retrieval optimizations. Te three subsequent baselines, namely doc2query, DeepCT, and docTTTTquery, each brings a decisive enhancement to effectiveness. Tese improvements come at negligible overheads in latency, since these baselines ultimately rely on BM25-based retrieval. Te most effective among these three, docTTTTquery, demonstrates a massive 9% gain over vanilla BM25 by fine-tuning the recent language model T5. 

> 7htp://anserini.io/ 

> 8In practice, a myriad of reasons could still cause DeepCT’s latency to differ slightly from BM25’s. For instance, the top- _k_ pruning strategy employed, if any, could interact differently with a changed distribution of scores. 

Shifing our atention to ColBERT’s end-to-end retrieval effectiveness, we see its major gains in MRR@10 over all of these end-toend models. In fact, using ColBERT in the end-to-end setup is superior in terms of MRR@10 to re-ranking with the same model due to the improved recall. Moving beyond MRR@10, we also see large gains in Recall@ _k_ for _k_ equals to 50, 200, and 1000. For instance, its Recall@50 actually exceeds the official BM25’s Recall@1000 and even all but docTTTTTquery’s Recall@200, emphasizing the value of end-to-end retrieval (instead of just re-ranking) with ColBERT. 

## **4.4 Ablation Studies** 

**==> picture [242 x 80] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
BERT [CLS]-based dot-product (5-layer)  [A]<br>ColBERT via average similarity (5-layer)  [B]<br>ColBERT without query augmentation (5-layer)  [C]<br>ColBERT (5-layer)  [D]<br>ColBERT (12-layer)  [E]<br>ColBERT + e2e retrieval (12-layer)  [F]<br>0.22 0.24 0.26 0.28 0.30 0.32 0.34 0.36<br>MRR@10<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 5: Ablation results on MS MARCO (Dev). Between brackets is the number of BERT layers used in each model.** 

Te results from §4.2 indicate that ColBERT is highly effective despite the low cost and simplicity of its late interaction mechanism. To beter understand the source of this effectiveness, we examine a number of important details in ColBERT’s interaction and encoder architecture. For this ablation, we report MRR@10 on the validation set of MS MARCO in Figure 5, which shows our main _re-ranking_ ColBERT model [E], with MRR@10 of 34.9%. 

Due to the cost of training all models, we train a copy of our main model that retains only the first 5 layers of BERT out of 12 (i.e., model [D]) and similarly train all our ablation models for 200k iterations with five BERT layers. To begin with, we ask if the finegranular _interaction_ in late interaction is necessary. Model [A] tackles this question: it uses BERT to produce a single embedding vector for the query and another for the document, extracted from BERT’s [CLS] contextualized embedding and expanded through a linear layer to dimension 4096 (which equals _Nq_ × 128 = 32 × 128). Relevance is estimated as the inner product of the query’s and the document’s embeddings, which we found to perform beter than cosine similarity for single-vector re-ranking. As the results show, this model is considerably less effective than ColBERT, reinforcing the importance of late interaction. 

Subsequently, we ask if our MaxSim-based late interaction is better than other simple alternatives. We test a model [B] that replaces ColBERT’s maximum similarity with _average_ similarity. Te results suggest the importance of individual terms in the query paying special atention to particular terms in the document. Similarly, the figure emphasizes the importance of our query augmentation mechanism: without query augmentation [C], ColBERT has a noticeably lower MRR@10. Lastly, we see the impact of end-to-end retrieval not only on recall but also on MRR@10. By retrieving directly from the full collection, ColBERT is able to retrieve to the top-10 documents missed entirely from BM25’s top-1000. 

**==> picture [242 x 72] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Basic ColBERT Indexing<br>+multi-GPU document processing<br>+per-batch maximum sequence length<br>+length-based bucketing<br>+multi-core pre-processing<br>0 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000<br>Throughput (documents/minute)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 6: Effect of ColBERT’s indexing optimizations on the offline indexing throughput.** 

## **4.5 Indexing Troughput & Footprint** 

Lastly, we examine the indexing throughput and space footprint of ColBERT. Figure 6 reports indexing throughput on MS MARCO documents with ColBERT and four other ablation setings, which individually enable optimizations described in §3.4 on top of basic batched indexing. Based on these throughputs, ColBERT can index MS MARCO in about three hours. Note that any BERT-based model must incur the computational cost of processing each document at least once. While ColBERT encodes each document with BERT exactly once, existing BERT-based rankers would repeat similar computations on possibly hundreds of documents for each query. 

|Seting|Dimension(_m_)|Bytes/Dim|Space(GiBs)|MRR@10|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Re-rank Cosine|128|4|286|34.9|
|End-to-end L2|128|2|154|36.0|
|Re-rank L2|128|2|143|34.8|
|Re-rank Cosine|48|4|54|34.4|
|Re-rank Cosine|24|2|27|33.9|



**Table 4: Space Footprint vs MRR@10 (Dev) on MS MARCO.** 

Table 4 reports the space footprint of ColBERT under various setings as we reduce the embeddings dimension and/or the bytes per dimension. Interestingly, the most space-efficient seting, that is, re-ranking with cosine similarity with 24-dimensional vectors stored as 2-byte floats, is only 1% worse in MRR@10 than the most space-consuming one, while the former requires only 27 GiBs to represent the MS MARCO collection. 

## **5 CONCLUSIONS** 

In this paper, we introduced ColBERT, a novel ranking model that employs _contextualized late interaction_ over deep LMs (in particular, BERT) for efficient retrieval. By independently encoding queries and documents into fine-grained representations that interact via cheap and pruning-friendly computations, ColBERT can leverage the expressiveness of deep LMs while greatly speeding up query processing. In addition, doing so allows using ColBERT for end-toend neural retrieval directly from a large document collection. Our results show that ColBERT is more than 170× faster and requires 14,000× fewer FLOPs/query than existing BERT-based models, all while only minimally impacting quality and while outperforming every non-BERT baseline. 

**Acknowledgments.** OK was supported by the Eltoukhy Family Graduate Fellowship at the Stanford School of Engineering. Tis research was supported in part by affiliate members and other supporters of the Stanford DAWN project—Ant Financial, Facebook, Google, Infosys, NEC, and VMware—as well as Cisco, SAP, and the 

NSF under CAREER grant CNS-1651570. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. 

## **REFERENCES** 

- [1] Firas Abuzaid, Geet Sethi, Peter Bailis, and Matei Zaharia. 2019. To Index or Not to Index: Optimizing Exact Maximum Inner Product Search. In _2019 IEEE 35th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE)_ . IEEE, 1250–1261. 

- [2] Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2019. Context-Aware Sentence/Passage Term Importance Estimation For First Stage Retrieval. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.10687_ (2019). 

- [3] Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2019. Deeper Text Understanding for IR with Contextual Neural Language Modeling. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.09217_ (2019). 

- [4] Zhuyun Dai, Chenyan Xiong, Jamie Callan, and Zhiyuan Liu. 2018. Convolutional neural networks for sof-matching n-grams in ad-hoc search. In _Proceedings of the eleventh ACM international conference on web search and data mining_ . 126–134. 

- [5] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805_ (2018). 

- [6] Laura Dietz, Manisha Verma, Filip Radlinski, and Nick Craswell. 2017. TREC Complex Answer Retrieval Overview.. In _TREC_ . 

- [7] Jiafeng Guo, Yixing Fan, Qingyao Ai, and W Bruce Crof. 2016. A deep relevance matching model for ad-hoc retrieval. In _Proceedings of the 25th ACM International on Conference on Information and Knowledge Management_ . ACM, 55–64. 

- [8] Jiafeng Guo, Yixing Fan, Liang Pang, Liu Yang, Qingyao Ai, Hamed Zamani, Chen Wu, W Bruce Crof, and Xueqi Cheng. 2019. A deep look into neural ranking models for information retrieval. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.06902_ (2019). 

- [9] Sebastian Hofstater and Allan Hanbury. 2019. Let’s measure run time! Extending¨ the IR replicability infrastructure to include performance aspects. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.04614_ (2019). 

- [10] Sebastian Hofstater,¨ Navid Rekabsaz, Carsten Eickhoff, and Allan Hanbury. 2019. On the effect of low-frequency terms on neural-IR models. In _Proceedings of the 42nd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval_ . 1137–1140. 

- [11] Sebastian Hofstater, Markus Zlabinger, and Allan Hanbury. 2019.¨ TU Wien@ TREC Deep Learning’19–Simple Contextualization for Re-ranking. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.01385_ (2019). 

- [12] Po-Sen Huang, Xiaodong He, Jianfeng Gao, Li Deng, Alex Acero, and Larry Heck. 2013. Learning deep structured semantic models for web search using clickthrough data. In _Proceedings of the 22nd ACM international conference on Information & Knowledge Management_ . 2333–2338. 

- [13] Shiyu Ji, Jinjin Shao, and Tao Yang. 2019. Efficient Interaction-based Neural Ranking with Locality Sensitive Hashing. In _Te World Wide Web Conference_ . ACM, 2858–2864. 

- [14] Xiaoqi Jiao, Yichun Yin, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, Xiao Chen, Linlin Li, Fang Wang, and Qn Liu. 2019. Tinybert: Distilling bert for natural language understanding. 

- [15] _arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.10351_ Jeff Johnson, Mathijs Douze, and Herv (2019). e J´ egou. 2017.´ Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.08734_ (2017). 

- [16] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980_ (2014). 

   - [25] Rodrigo Nogueira and Kyunghyun Cho. 2019. Passage Re-ranking with BERT. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.04085_ (2019). 

   - [26] Rodrigo Nogueira, Jimmy Lin, and AI Epistemic. 2019. From doc2query to docTTTTTquery. (2019). 

   - [27] Rodrigo Nogueira, Wei Yang, Kyunghyun Cho, and Jimmy Lin. 2019. Multi-Stage Document Ranking with BERT. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.14424_ (2019). 

   - [28] Rodrigo Nogueira, Wei Yang, Jimmy Lin, and Kyunghyun Cho. 2019. Document Expansion by Qery Prediction. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08375_ (2019). 

   - [29] Mathew E Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Mat Gardner, Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, and Luke Zetlemoyer. 2018. Deep contextualized word representations. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.05365_ (2018). 

   - [30] Yifan Qiao, Chenyan Xiong, Zhenghao Liu, and Zhiyuan Liu. 2019. Understanding the Behaviors of BERT in Ranking. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.07531_ (2019). 

   - [31] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2019. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.10683_ (2019). 

   - [32] Stephen E Robertson, Steve Walker, Susan Jones, Micheline M Hancock-Beaulieu, Mike Gatford, et al. 1995. Okapi at TREC-3. _NIST Special Publication_ (1995). 

   - [33] Raphael Tang, Yao Lu, Linqing Liu, Lili Mou, Olga Vechtomova, and Jimmy Lin. 2019. Distilling task-specific knowledge from BERT into simple neural networks. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.12136_ (2019). 

   - [34] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Atention is all you need. In _Advances in neural information processing systems_ . 5998–6008. 

   - [35] Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Qoc V Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey, Maxim Krikun, Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus Macherey, et al. 2016. Google’s neural machine translation system: Bridging the gap between human and machine translation. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.08144_ (2016). 

   - [36] Chenyan Xiong, Zhuyun Dai, Jamie Callan, Zhiyuan Liu, and Russell Power. 2017. End-to-end neural ad-hoc ranking with kernel pooling. In _Proceedings of the 40th International ACM SIGIR conference on research and development in information retrieval_ . 55–64. 

   - [37] Peilin Yang, Hui Fang, and Jimmy Lin. 2018. Anserini: Reproducible ranking baselines using Lucene. _Journal of Data and Information Qality (JDIQ)_ 10, 4 (2018), 1–20. 

   - [38] Wei Yang, Kuang Lu, Peilin Yang, and Jimmy Lin. 2019. Critically Examining the” Neural Hype” Weak Baselines and the Additivity of Effectiveness Gains from Neural Ranking Models. In _Proceedings of the 42nd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval_ . 1129–1132. 

   - [39] Zeynep Akkalyoncu Yilmaz, Wei Yang, Haotian Zhang, and Jimmy Lin. 2019. Cross-domain modeling of sentence-level evidence for document retrieval. In _Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP)_ . 3481–3487. 

   - [40] Ofir Zafrir, Guy Boudoukh, Peter Izsak, and Moshe Wasserblat. 2019. Q8bert: Qantized 8bit bert. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.06188_ (2019). 

   - [41] Hamed Zamani, Mostafa Dehghani, W Bruce Crof, Erik Learned-Miller, and Jaap Kamps. 2018. From neural re-ranking to neural ranking: Learning a sparse representation for inverted indexing. In _Proceedings of the 27th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management_ . ACM, 497–506. 

   - [42] Le Zhao. 2012. _Modeling and solving term mismatch for full-text retrieval_ . Ph.D. Dissertation. Carnegie Mellon University. 

- [17] Ron Kohavi, Alex Deng, Brian Frasca, Toby Walker, Ya Xu, and Nils Pohlmann. 2013. Online controlled experiments at large scale. In _SIGKDD_ . 

- [18] Sean MacAvaney, Andrew Yates, Arman Cohan, and Nazli Goharian. 2019. Cedr: Contextualized embeddings for document ranking. In _Proceedings of the 42nd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval_ . ACM, 1101–1104. 

- [19] Paul Michel, Omer Levy, and Graham Neubig. 2019. Are Sixteen Heads Really Beter than One?. In _Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems_ . 14014– 14024. 

- [20] Bhaskar Mitra and Nick Craswell. 2019. An Updated Duet Model for Passage Re-ranking. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.07666_ (2019). 

- [21] Bhaskar Mitra, Nick Craswell, et al. 2018. An introduction to neural information retrieval. _Foundations and Trends® in Information Retrieval_ 13, 1 (2018), 1–126. 

- [22] Bhaskar Mitra, Fernando Diaz, and Nick Craswell. 2017. Learning to match using local and distributed representations of text for web search. In _Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on World Wide Web_ . International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Commitee, 1291–1299. 

- [23] Bhaskar Mitra, Corby Rosset, David Hawking, Nick Craswell, Fernando Diaz, and Emine Yilmaz. 2019. Incorporating query term independence assumption for efficient retrieval and ranking using deep neural networks. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.03693_ (2019). 

- [24] Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder, and Li Deng. 2016. MS MARCO: A Human-Generated MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset. (2016). 

