# **Distilling Dense Representations for Ranking using Tightly-Coupled Teachers** 

Sheng-Chieh Lin _[∗]_ , Jheng-Hong Yang _[∗]_ and Jimmy Lin 

David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science University of Waterloo 

## **Abstract** 

We present an approach to ranking with dense representations that applies knowledge distillation to improve the recently proposed lateinteraction ColBERT model. Specifically, we distill the knowledge from ColBERT’s expressive MaxSim operator for computing relevance scores into a simple dot product, thus enabling single-step ANN search. Our key insight is that during distillation, tight coupling between the teacher model and the student model enables more flexible distillation strategies and yields better learned representations. We empirically show that our approach improves query latency and greatly reduces the onerous storage requirements of ColBERT, while only making modest sacrifices in terms of effectiveness. By combining our dense representations with sparse representations derived from document expansion, we are able to approach the effectiveness of a standard crossencoder reranker using BERT that is orders of magnitude slower. 

## **1 Introduction** 

For well over half a century, solutions to the _ad hoc_ retrieval problem—where the system’s task is return a list of top _k_ texts from an arbitrarily large corpus _C_ that maximizes some metric of quality such as average precision or nDCG—has been dominated by _sparse_ vector representations, for example, bag-of-words BM25. Even in modern multi-stage ranking architectures, which take advantage of large pretrained transformers such as BERT (Devlin et al., 2018), the models are deployed as _rerankers_ over initial candidates retrieved based on sparse vector representations; this is sometimes called “first-stage retrieval”. One well-known example of this design is the BERT-based reranker of Nogueira and Cho (2019). 

> _∗_ Contributed equally. 

The standard reranker architecture, while effective, exhibits high query latency, on the order of seconds per query (Hofstatter and Hanbury¨ , 2019; Khattab and Zaharia, 2020) because expensive neural inference must be applied at query time on query–document pairs. This design is known as a cross-encoder (Humeau et al., 2020), and it exploits query–document attention interactions across all transformer layers. As an alternative, the field has seen much recent interest in approaches based on representation learning that allow document representations to be precomputed independently of queries and stored. Efficient libraries then allow large-scale comparisons between query and document vectors. Overall, such approaches are less effective than cross-encoder reranking models, but 

Within this general framework, we describe our low latency end-to-end approach for the _ad hoc_ passage retrieval task that combines dense and sparse representations. As a starting point, we adopt the “late interaction” ColBERT model (Khattab and Zaharia, 2020) and, via knowledge distillation (Hinton et al., 2015), are able to simplify its MaxSim relevance computation into dot-product similarity over pooled embeddings. Since lexical signals (e.g., term frequencies) from sparse representations remain essential for _ad hoc_ retrieval (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Luan et al., 2020), we further demonstrate that our dense representations can simply incorporate sparse signals without a complex joint training strategy (Gao et al., 2020). In sum, we introduce simple-yet-effective strategies that leverage both dense and sparse representations for the end-to-end _ad hoc_ passage retrieval task. 

Our key insight is that during distillation, tight coupling between the teacher model and the student model enables more flexible distillation strategies and yields better learned representations (illustrated in Figure 1). By tight coupling, we mean that 

**==> picture [218 x 200] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Soft labels Hard labels<br>d [+] d [+] d [+] d [−] d [−] d [−] d [+] d [+] d [+] d [−] d [−] d [−]<br>q 0 q 1 q 2 q 0 q 1 q 2 q 0 q 1 q 2 q 0 q 1 q 2<br>q 0 0.80 0.01 0.02 0.10 0.04 0.03 q 0 1 0 0 0 0 0<br>q 1 0.03 0.70 0.01 0.05 0.20 0.01 q 1 0 1 0 0 0 0<br>q 2 0.01 0.01 0.90 0.02 0.01 0.05 q 2 0 0 1 0 0 0<br>Teacher Student<br>∑ MaxSim MaxSim Pool q X Pool d<br>Query  Doc  Query  Doc<br>Encoder Encoder Encoder Encoder<br>q 0 d [+] q 0 d [−] q 0 q 1 d [+] q 1 d [−] q 1 q 2 d [+] q 2 d [−] q 2<br>Batch triplets<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 1: Tight coupling between teacher and student models during distillation of dense representations for ranking. 

inference using the teacher model is interleaved directly during the distillation process: This is a key difference between our approach and previous methods where query–document scores are precomputed (Hofstatter et al.¨ , 2020). With this tight coupling, we can also avoid computationally expensive mechanisms such as periodic index refreshes that are necessary during representation learning (Guu et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2020). A practical consequence of this tight coupling is that the teacher model must itself be reasonably efficient (thus, for example, ruling out teacher models based on crossencoders). For this role, ColBERT (Khattab and Zaharia, 2020) is a good fit. 

## **2 Background** 

We begin by formalizing the representation learning problem for text ranking and review learning approaches. We represent matrices by uppercase letters _X_ , scalars by lowercase italic letters _x_ , and vectors by lowercase bold letters **x** . 

The _ad hoc_ retrieval task can be viewed as a text ranking problem; here, we adopt the formulation of Lin et al. (2020). Specifically, we aim to learn some transformation _η_ ( _·_ ), called an encoder, that maximize the following probability via surrogate functions given a pair comprising a query **q** _∈_ R _[n]_ and a candidate text (e.g., a passage) **d** _∈_ R _[n]_ : 

**==> picture [180 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

where _φ_ is a similarity function and _n_ is an arbitrary natural number. The system’s task is to return the 

top- _k_ relevant texts for a query via the similarity function _φ_ that takes _ηq_ ( **q** ) and _ηd_ ( **d** ). Depending on the design, _ηq_ and _ηd_ can be identical or distinct. 

**Dot-product similarity.** Since online serving latency is critical in real-world applications, a standard choice of _φ_ in Eq. (1) is the dot product, _⟨·, ·⟩_ . Given this formulation, finding the top scoring passages that maximize _⟨_ **q** _,_ **d** _⟩_ can be approximated efficiently by Approximated Nearest Neighbor search (ANN) (Liu et al., 2004) or Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) (Shrivastava and Li, 2014) (henceforth, ANN), and accomplished by existing off-the-shelf libraries. 

**Transformer-based bi-encoders.** For large-scale applications, encoders based on pretrained transformers (Devlin et al., 2018) have been widely adopted to map queries and passages into low dimensional vectors independently (Lee et al., 2019; Chang et al., 2020; Khattab and Zaharia, 2020; Guu et al., 2020; Karpukhin et al., 2020; Luan et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2020). Known as a bi-encoder design, a query (or a passage) is first mapped to a contextualized representation _Eq ∈_ R _[l][q][×][t]_ (or _Ed ∈_ R _[l][d][×][t]_ ), where _l_ indicates the length of the tokenized query (or the passage) of _t_ -dimensional vectors. Given the contextualized representation matrix, there are many choices for _η_ : R _[l][×][t] →_ R _[h]_ that transforms _E_ ( _·_ ) into a lower dimensional vector _η_ ( _E_ ( _·_ )), where _h ≪ l · t_ . 

Prior to retrieval, the _h_ -dimensional representations can be precomputed for each of _|C|_ texts in a corpus. With specialized ANN libraries that take advantage of the parallelism provided by GPUs, even a brute force scan over millions of vectors is feasible. With index structures, for example, based on small world graphs (Malkov and Yashunin, 2020), the ANN search problem can be further accelerated. 

**Design choices.** In general, compositions of _φ_ and _η_ can be designed with different approaches. For example, given a query–passage pair, we can define relevance in terms of the dot product between the two pooled embeddings as follows: 

**==> picture [185 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

where the Pool operator can be average or maximum pooling over token embeddings, or an indicator to a specific token embedding, e.g., the [CLS] embedding in BERT. In this study, we adopt average pooling over token embeddings as our baseline, denoted as PoolAvg. 

Our work builds on ColBERT (Khattab and Zaharia, 2020), who proposed a _φ_ comparison function defined in terms of MaxSim, as follows: 

**==> picture [210 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

where _η_ is composition of functions: 

**==> picture [183 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

We refer readers to Khattab and Zaharia (2020) for more details. While ColBERT represents a design that greatly reduces retrieval latency with only a modest degradation in quality compared to the cross-encoder design, it still has two major limitations: 

- The process of computing Eq. (3) is approximated by a two-stage pipeline: retrieving then reranking, since MaxSim over the entire collection is not feasible. Thus, despite its aspirations to single-stage ANN search, end-to-end retrieval with ColBERT still requires multi-stage retrieval. 

- The technique suffers from unreasonably high storage requirements compared to _φ_ PoolDot because the passages are preprocessed and stored as _sequences_ of token embeddings via Conv1D( _Ed_ ) _∈_ R _[l][∗][×][h][∗]_ , where _l[∗]_ denotes the length of the passage in tokens and _h[∗]_ denotes the kernel dimension of Conv1D in Eq. (4).[1] 

On the other hand, learning well-behaved representations for the pooled embeddings using dot products directly, as in Eq. (2) is not trivial, since this process involves drastically non-linear dimension reduction. The recent work of Guu et al. (2020) and Xiong et al. (2020) propose adapting ANN search for mining hard negative examples to finetune the pretrained representations _E_ ( _·_ ), which reduces the gap between training and inference. However, this process is computationally demanding since it requires periodically refreshing the ANN index of all candidates (i.e., requiring inference over _all_ texts in the corpus) to ensure that the best negative examples are retrieved. Xiong et al. (2020) reports that re-encoding the entire corpus takes around 10 hours, and this occurs every 5K steps during training. 

> 1Khattab and Zaharia (2020) append specialized tokens, [Q] and [D], for both queries and passages and set the kernel dimension of Conv1D to 128. 

In another work, Hofstatter et al.¨ (2020) demonstrate that knowledge distillation from precomputed relevance scores of well-behaved crossencoder rerankers is effective. While distillation is able to capture reranking effectiveness, computationally expensive cross-encoder teachers limit the flexibility of exploring different combinations of query–document pairs, as exhaustively precomputing relevance scores using these cross-encoders can be computationally intractable. 

## **3 Methodology** 

In contrast to the methods discussed above, we propose a simple-yet-effective approach: knowledge distillation (Hinton et al., 2015) with the novel insight that teacher and student models should be tightly coupled. During training, in addition to finetuning using the contextualized representations _E_ ( _·_ ) with relevance labels, we distill knowledge from ColBERT’s similarity function _φ_ MaxSim into a dotproduct bi-encoder. 

Although ColBERT has enabled efficient passage retrieval, we seek to simplify it further. To reduce computation and storage cost, we remove Conv1D and define our own similarity function in terms of average pooling over token embeddings (PoolAvg). Thus, we precompute and store passage embeddings as Pool( _Ed_ ) _∈_ R _[h]_ using ANN indexing in advance; during inference, we only have to encode query embeddings as Pool( _Eq_ ) _∈_ R _[h]_ and then conduct ANN search.[2] 

## **3.1 Knowledge Distillation** 

Formally, given a query **q** , we first estimate the relevance of a passage **d** using two sets of conditional probabilities: 

**==> picture [194 x 49] intentionally omitted <==**

where _D_ is the set of all the passages, _P_[ˆ] is the relevance probability estimated by the knowledge source, and _τ_ is the temperature to control the probability distribution. 

Note that it is infeasible to enumerate all the passages during each training step; hence, following Chang et al. (2020), we replace _D_ with a sampled passage set _DB_ in the same batch _B_ . Specifically, we have a batch of triplets ( **q** _i,_ **d**[+] _qi[,]_ **[ d]** _[−] qi_[)] _[i][∈B]_ as follows. For a query **q** _i_ , we have: 

> 2We set _h_ = 768 for both queries and passages. 

1. a positive passage **d**[+] _qi_[in a positive labeled set] _T_[+] _qi_[,] 

2. a negative passage **d** _[−] qi_[in a negative set] _[ T] q[−] i_ ;BM25 sampled by BM25 but not in _Tq_[+] _i_[, and] 

3. the rest of passages for other queries _{_ **q** _j}j∈B_ in the same batch: _{_ **d**[+] _qj[}][j][∈B][∪{]_ **[d]** _[−] qj[}][j][∈B]_[.] 

We denote the negative passage set _Tq[−] i_ ; _B_[for a query] _qi_ as the union of (2) and (3). We train our model using the following objective function: 

**==> picture [215 x 49] intentionally omitted <==**

where the first term corresponds to the softmax cross entropy over relevance labels, the second term denotes the KL divergence between the sampled probability distributions from our teacher, the **T** ightly- **C** oupled **T** eacher ColBERT (TCTColBERT), and our student, the Siamese Network (Bromley et al., 1993) with BERT-base as encoders, denoted as bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT). The hyperparameter _γ_ controls the loss from hard and soft labels.[3] During the fine-tuning of the biencoder (TCT-ColBERT), we freeze the weight of ColBERT and set the temperature _τ_ and _γ_ to 0.25 and 0.1, respectively. 

## **3.2 Hybrid Dense-Sparse Ranking** 

As shown in Luan et al. (2020); Gao et al. (2020), a single dense embedding cannot sufficiently represent passages, especially when the passages are long, and they further demonstrate that sparse retrieval can complement dense retrieval by a linear combination of their scores. However, it is not practical to compute scores over all query and passage pairs, especially when the corpus is large. Thus, we propose an alternative approximation, which is easy to implement. In this work, we conduct end-to-end sparse and dense retrieval using Anserini (Yang et al., 2018)[4] and Faiss (Johnson et al., 2017),[5] respectively. 

For each query **q** , we use sparse and dense representations to retrieve top 1000 passages, _Dsp_ and _Dds_ , with their relevance scores, _φsp_ ( **q** _,_ **d** _∈Dsp_ ) 

> 3The pretrained weights for BERT-base are from https: //storage.googleapis.com/bert_models/ 2018_10_18/uncased_L-12_H-768_A-12.zip. 

> 4https://github.com/castorini/anserini 

> 5https://github.com/facebookresearch/ faiss 

and _φds_ ( **q** _,_ **d** _∈Dds_ ), respectively. Then, we compute the scores for each retrieved passages, **d** _∈Dsp ∪Dds_ , as follows: 

**==> picture [220 x 54] intentionally omitted <==**

Eq. (7) is an approximation of linear combination of sparse and dense relevant scores. For approximation, if **d** _∈D/ sp_ (or _Dds_ ), we directly use the minimum score of _φsp_ ( **q** _,_ **d** _∈Dsp_ ), or _φds_ ( **q** _,_ **d** _∈ Dds_ ) as a substitute. 

## **4 Experimental Setup** 

To demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed design, we conduct experiments on a large-scale real world dataset. We first describe the experiment settings and then elaborate on our empirical results in detail. 

We conduct _ad hoc_ passage retrieval on the MS MARCO ranking dataset (henceforth, MS MARCO) (Bajaj et al., 2016). It consists a collection of 8.8M passage from web pages and a set of 0.5M relevant (question, passage) pairs as training data, where each query on average has one relevant passage. We follow two protocols for evaluation aligned with previous work (Nogueira and Lin, 2019; Dai and Callan, 2020; Gao et al., 2020; Luan et al., 2020; Khattab and Zaharia, 2020): 

- (a) MS MARCO Dev: 6980 queries comprise the development set for MS MARCO, with on average one relevant passage per query. We report MRR@10 and R@1000 as top- _k_ retrieval measures. 

- (b) TREC-2019 DL (Craswell et al., 2019): the organizers of the 2019 Deep Learning track at the Text REtrieval Conference (TREC) released 43 queries with multiple graded relevance labels, where 9k (query, passage) pairs were annotated by NIST assessors. We report NDCG@10 and R@1000 for this evaluation set. 

There are two steps in our training procedure: (1) fine-tune _φ_ MaxSim as our teacher model, (2) freeze _φ_ MaxSim and distill knowledge into our student model while fine-tuning _φ_ Pool. For both steps, we train models on the MS MARCO “small” triples training set for 160k iterations with a batch size of 96. Note that at the second stage, we initialize 

Table 1: Main results on passage retrieval tasks. 

||MS MARCO dev<br>MRR@10<br>R@1000|TREC2019 DL<br>latency<br>NDCG@10<br>R@1000<br>(ms/query)|
|---|---|---|
|**Sparse retrieval (Single Stage)**<br>BM25<br>DeepCT (Dai and Callan,2020)<br>doc2query-T5 (Nogueira and Lin,2019)|0.184<br>0.853<br>0.243<br>0.913<br>0.277<br>0.947|0.506<br>0.738<br>55<br>0.551<br>0.756<br>55<br>0.642<br>0.802<br>64|
|**Dense retrieval (Single Stage)**<br>ANCE (Xiong et al.,2020)<br>Bi-encoder (PoolAvg)<br>Bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT)|0.330<br>0.959<br>0.310<br>0.945<br>0.335<br>0.964|0.648<br>-<br>103<br>0.626<br>0.658<br>103<br>0.670<br>0.720<br>103|
|**Multi-Stage**<br>ColBERT (Khattab and Zaharia,2020)<br>BM25 + BERT-large (Nogueira and Cho,2019)|0.360<br>0.968<br>**0.365**<br>-|-<br>-<br>458<br>0.736<br>-<br>3,500|
|**Hybrid dense + sparse (Single Stage)**<br>CLEAR (Gao et al.,2020)<br>Bi-encoder (PoolAvg) + BM25<br>Bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT) + BM25<br>Bi-encoder (PoolAvg) + doc2query-T5<br>Bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT) + doc2query-T5|0.338<br>0.969<br>0.342<br>0.962<br>0.352<br>0.970<br>0.354<br>0.970<br>0.364<br>**0.973**|0.699<br>0.812<br>-<br>0.701<br>0.804<br>106<br>0.714<br>0.819<br>106<br>0.719<br>0.818<br>106<br>**0.739**<br>**0.832**<br>106|



the student model using the trained weights of the teacher model. We fix sequence length to 32 and 150 for queries and passages, respectively. For the sparse and dense retrieval combination, we tune the hyperparameter _α_ on 6000 randomly sampled queries from the 0.5M queries with relevance labels for training (the “train qrels”). We conduct dense–sparse hybrid experiment with sparse signals from the original passages (denoted BM25) and docTTTTTquery (Nogueira and Lin, 2019) (denoted doc2query-T5). The optimal _α_ for BM25 and doc2query-T5 are 0.10 and 0.24 respectively. 

## **5 Results** 

Our main results are shown in Table 1, which reports effectiveness metrics as well as query latency. We divide different comparison conditions into four categories: sparse retrieval, dense retrieval, multistage, dense–sparse hybrid. 

The cross-encoder reranker of Nogueira and Cho (2019) provides a point of reference for multi-stage designs. While it is effective, the model is also very slow. In comparison, ColBERT is much faster, with only a small degradation in effectiveness. However, it still relies on a two-stage retrieval design, and is about four times slower than other single-stage dense retrieval ANN search methods. 

As far as we are aware, ANCE (Xiong et al., 2020) is the current state of the art for singlestage dense retrieval, but as we have explained, its asynchronous training requires re-encoding and re-indexing the whole corpus during training. 

Our proposed method, bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT) slightly outperforms ANCE in terms of ranking accuracy and recall. To highlight the effectiveness of our training strategy, we report the effectiveness of the bi-encoder design without distillation, denoted bi-encoder (PoolAvg), for a fair comparison. A sizeable effectiveness increase from biencoder (PoolAvg) to bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT) is observed in both tasks: +0 _._ 025 (+0 _._ 056) in MRR@10 and +0 _._ 019 (+0 _._ 062) in R@1000 for MS MARCO (TREC2019 DL). 

When we further incorporate sparse signals, our proposed method beats the current state of the art in hybrid approaches, CLEAR (Gao et al., 2020), in both the MS MARCO and TREC 2019 DL tasks. Combined with BM25, our model already exhibits better retrieval effectiveness than CLEAR. In addition, the comparison between bi-encoder (PoolAvg) and bi-encoder (TCT-ColBERT) demonstrates that the gain from distilled dense representation is still present, even with the advanced sparse retrieval method doc2query-T5: +0 _._ 010 (+0 _._ 010) and +0 _._ 013 (+0 _._ 020) with BM25 (doc2queryT5) in MRR@10 for both the MS MARCO and TREC2019 DL tasks, respectively. The advanced hybrids (entries with doc2query-T5) reaches effectiveness even better than ColBERT and is almost on par with the cross-encoder reranker. It is also worth noting that our hybrid end-to-end retrieval method yields state-of-the-art recall in both tasks. More importantly, our proposed method is four times and thirty times more efficient than the multi-stage 

Table 2: Component latency. 

|Stage|latency|device|
|---|---|---|
||(ms/query)||
|BERT query encoder|3|GPU|
|Dot product search|100|GPU|
|Score combination|3|CPU|



methods: ColBERT and the cross-encoder reranker, respectively. These results demonstrate that the dense–sparse hybrid is a promising solution for low latency end-to-end text retrieval. 

**Latency.** Table 2 shows the breakdown of end-toend retrieval latency into individual components. Specifically, we measure the system overhead of query embedding generation, dense retrieval with top 1000 passages, and dense–sparse score combination. To obtain the latency for dense retrieval, we run BERT query encoder and dot product search using a 32GB V100 GPU. Specifically, we conduct brute force dot product search in Faiss (indexing with IndexFlatIP). As for the dense–sparse hybrid, we assume sparse and dense retrieval can be run in parallel; this is a realistic assumption because sparse retrieval runs on CPUs. Thus, the total latency of the hybrid model (shown in Table 1) is bound by dense retrieval with additional 3ms for score combination (since sparse retrieval is faster than dense retrieval). 

**Ablation study.** Finally, we study the effectiveness of our distilled dense representations on the MS MARCO development set under two settings, reranking and retrieval. For reranking, we use the public development set retrieved using BM25 for the reranking task (provided by the organizers), and conduct reranking using dot product scores; for retrieval, we conduct brute force dot product search over the whole corpus. We split our distillation strategy into two key features of our proposed technique: triplet and in-batch subsampling, from which we expect to see the effectiveness of triplet distillation (condition 2) and in-batch subsampling distillation (condition 3). Specifically, by triplet distillation (condition 2) we mean that for each query **q** _i_ , we only compute soft labels of its triplet ( **q** _i,_ **d**[+] _qi[,]_ **[ d]** _[−] qi_[)][for][distillation][instead][of][the][whole] in-batch samples (condition 3). 

Table 3 reports the ranking accuracy in terms of MRR@10. First, we observe reranking yields better effectiveness than retrieval in conditions 1 and 2. This indicates retrieval is a more challeng- 

Table 3: Ablation study on MS MARCO dev set. 

|Cond.|Distillation strategy<br>Triplet<br>In-batch|MRR@10<br>Re-ranking<br>Retrieval|
|---|---|---|
|1||0.319<br>0.310|
|2<br>|✓<br><br>|0.332<br>0.328<br><br>|
|3|✓<br>✓|0.332<br>0.335|



ing task than reranking, and potentially explains the discrepancy between training and inference noted by Xiong et al. (2020). That is, in the training phase, the models only learn to discriminate positive passages from BM25-generated negative samples, which is similar to the reranking task; however, when conducting retrieval, models are required to rank documents from the whole corpus. Despite the discrepancy between training and retrieval, in-batch subsampling (condition 3) shows better retrieval accuracy. We attribute this to the distilled knowledge from in-batch samples. 

Correspondingly, the superior effectiveness from in-batch subsampling showcases a key advantage of our design because the dynamic subsampling is feasible only when using a tightly-coupled teacher. More advanced sampling methods such as importance sampling beyond uniform in-batch subsampling can be incorporated with our tightly-coupled teacher method, which we leave for future work. 

## **6 Conclusions** 

Learned dense representations for ranking have recently attracted the attention of many researchers. This approach is exciting because it has the potential to supplement, and perhaps even replace, sparse vector representations using inverted indexes. There are no doubt many concurrent explorations along these lines, and we add our own contributions to the mix. Knowledge distillation is a promising approach, and even beyond our specific approach built on ColBERT, we believe that our insight of tighter teacher–student coupling can be applied to other models and contexts as well. 

## **Acknowledgements** 

This research was supported in part by the Canada First Research Excellence Fund and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada. Additionally, we would like to thank Google for computational resources in the form of Google Cloud credits. 

## **References** 

- Payal Bajaj, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Li Deng, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong Liu, Rangan Majumder, Andrew McNamara, Bhaskar Mitra, Tri Nguyen, et al. 2016. MS MARCO: A human generated machine reading comprehension dataset. _arXiv:1611.09268_ . 

- Jane Bromley, Isabelle Guyon, Yann LeCun, Eduard S¨ackinger, and Roopak Shah. 1993. Signature verification using a ”Siamese” time delay neural network. In _Proc. NeurIPS_ , page 737–744. 

- Wei-Cheng Chang, Felix X. Yu, Yin-Wen Chang, Yiming Yang, and Sanjiv Kumar. 2020. Pre-training tasks for embedding-based large-scale retrieval. In _Proc. ICLR_ . 

- Nick Craswell, Bhaskar Mitra, and Daniel Campos. 2019. Overview of the TREC 2019 deep learning track. In _Proc. TREC_ . 

- Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2020. Context-aware term weighting for first stage passage retrieval. In _Proc. SIGIR_ , page 1533–1536. 

- Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. _arXiv:1810.04805_ . 

- Luyu Gao, Zhuyun Dai, Zhen Fan, and Jamie Callan. 2020. Complementing lexical retrieval with semantic residual embedding. _arXiv:2004.13969_ . 

- Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. REALM: Retrieval-augmented language model pre-training. _arXiv:2002.08909_ . 

- Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeffrey Dean. 2015. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network. In _Proc. NeurIPS: Deep Learning and Representation Learning Workshop_ . 

- Sebastian Hofst¨atter, Sophia Althammer, Michael Schr¨oder, Mete Sertkan, and Allan Hanbury. 2020. Improving efficient neural ranking models with cross-architecture knowledge distillation. _arXiv:2010.02666_ . 

- Sebastian Hofst¨atter and Allan Hanbury. 2019. Let’s measure run time! extending the IR replicability infrastructure to include performance aspects. In _Proc. OSIRRC: CEUR Workshop_ , pages 12–16. 

   - Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas O˘guz, Sewon Min, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. _arXiv:2004.04906_ . 

   - Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. 2020. ColBERT: Efficient and effective passage search via contextualized late interaction over BERT. In _Proc. SIGIR_ , page 39–48. 

   - Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. Latent retrieval for weakly supervised open domain question answering. In _Proc. ACL_ , pages 6086–6096. 

   - Jimmy Lin, Rodrigo Nogueira, and Andrew Yates. 2020. Pretrained transformers for text ranking: BERT and beyond. _arXiv:2010.06467_ . 

   - Ting Liu, Andrew W. Moore, Alexander Gray, and Ke Yang. 2004. An investigation of practical approximate nearest neighbor algorithms. In _Proc. NeurIPS_ , page 825–832. 

   - Yi Luan, Jacob Eisenstein, Kristina Toutanova, and Michael Collins. 2020. Sparse, dense, and attentional representations for text retrieval. _arXiv:2005.00181_ . 

   - Yu A. Malkov and D. A. Yashunin. 2020. Efficient and robust approximate nearest neighbor search using hierarchical navigable small world graphs. _IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell._ , 42(4):824–836. 

   - Rodrigo Nogueira and Kyunghyun Cho. 2019. Passage re-ranking with BERT. _arXiv:1901.04085_ . 

   - Rodrigo Nogueira and Jimmy Lin. 2019. From doc2query to docTTTTTquery. 

   - Anshumali Shrivastava and Ping Li. 2014. Asymmetric LSH (ALSH) for sublinear time maximum inner product search (MIPS). In _Proc. NeurIPS_ , page 2321–2329. 

   - Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang, Jialin Liu, Paul Bennett, Junaid Ahmed, and Arnold Overwijk. 2020. Approximate nearest neighbor negative contrastive learning for dense text retrieval. _arXiv:2007.00808_ . 

   - Peilin Yang, Hui Fang, and Jimmy Lin. 2018. Anserini: Reproducible ranking baselines using Lucene. _ACM J. Data. Inf. Qual._ , 10(4):Article 16. 

- Samuel Humeau, Kurt Shuster, Marie-Anne Lachaux, and Jason Weston. 2020. Poly-encoders: Architectures and pre-training strategies for fast and accurate multi-sentence scoring. In _Proc. ICLR_ . 

- Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Herv´e J´egou. 2017. Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. _arXiv:1702.08734_ . 

