# RECOMP: IMPROVING RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED LMS WITH COMPRESSION AND SELECTIVE AUGMENTATION 

**Fangyuan Xu**[1] **, Weijia Shi**[2] **, Eunsol Choi**[1] Department of Computer Science 1The University of Texas at Austin 

2University of Washington 

_{_ fangyuan,eunsol _}_ @utexas.edu , swj0419@cs.washington.edu 

## ABSTRACT 

Retrieving documents and prepending them in-context at inference time improves performance of language model (LMs) on a wide range of tasks. However, these documents, often spanning hundreds of words, make inference substantially more expensive. We propose compressing the retrieved documents into textual summaries prior to in-context integration. This not only reduces the computational costs but also relieves the burden of LMs to identify relevant information in long retrieved documents. We present two compressors – an _extractive compressor_ which selects useful sentences from retrieved documents and an _abstractive compressor_ which generates summaries by synthesizing information from multiple documents. Both compressors are trained to improve LMs’ performance on end tasks when the generated summaries are prepended to the LMs’ input, while keeping the summary concise. If the retrieved documents are irrelevant to the input or offer no additional information to LM, our compressor can return an empty string, implementing selective augmentation. We evaluate our approach on language modeling task and open domain question answering task. We achieve a compression rate of as low as 6% with minimal loss in performance for both tasks, significantly outperforming the off-the-shelf summarization models. We show that our compressors trained for one LM can transfer to other LMs on the language modeling task and provide summaries largely faithful to the retrieved documents.[1] 

## 1 INTRODUCTION 

Retrieval-augmented language models (RALMs) (Khandelwal et al., 2019; Izacard et al., 2022; Lewis et al., 2020; Borgeaud et al., 2022) have shown impressive performance on knowledge-intensive tasks (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019; Petroni et al., 2021). Simply prepending retrieved documents to the input without updating the language models (LMs) (Shi et al., 2023b; Ram et al., 2023; Si et al., 2022) allows retrieval augmentation even for black-box LMs, but such approach comes with limitations. First, it increases computational costs as LMs now encode substantially more tokens. Second, even if we manage to adapt LMs to efficiently incorporate longer context (Beltagy et al., 2020; Zaheer et al., 2020), these models struggle to use all information in the context, frequently missing information placed in the middle (Liu et al., 2023). Third, prepending a large number of documents in-context can further _confuse_ LMs with irrelevant information, degrading model performances (Mallen et al., 2022; Shi et al., 2023a). 

To overcome such limitations, we propose **RECOMP** ( **Re** trieve, **Com** press, **P** repend), an intermediate step for RALMs which compresses retrieved documents into a textual summary prior to in-context augmentation. Figure 1 illustrates our approach. The generated summary should be concise to maximize efficiency, be faithful to the retrieved evidence documents, and guide RALM to generate desired outputs when prepended to the input. To satisfy both efficiency and effectiveness constraints, our compressor strategically performs selective augmentation by generating an empty summary when the retrieved documents are irrelevant or unhelpful for target task. 

> 1 Our code is available at https://github.com/carriex/recomp. 

1 

**==> picture [396 x 91] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
RECOMP during inference<br>No retrieval  (0 tokens)<br>Input query  x 2010<br>Retrieved documents  D RALM  (749 tokens) Blackbox<br>stop making the nissan xterra?when did they  moved from Smyrnto Nissan's faci ity in Canton, Mississippi. Early US models include X, S and PRO-4X, with a choice of 6-speed manual…moved from Smyrna, Tennessee, to Nissan's facility in Canton, Mississippi. Early US models include X, S and PRO-4X, with a choice of 6-speed manual or 5-speed automatic transmissions, a choice of [...]moved from Smyrna, Tennessee, to Nissan's facility in CEarly US modePRO-4X, with a choice of 6-speed manual or 5-speed automatic transmissions, a choice of [...]moved from Smyrna, Tennessee, to Nissan's facility in Canton, Mississippi. Early US models include X, S and PRO-4X, with a choice of 6-speed manual or 5-speed automatic transmissions, a choice of [...]moved from Smyrna, Tennessee, to Nissan's facility in Canton, Mississippi. Early US models include X, S and PRO-4X, with a choice of 6-speed manual or 5-speed automatic transmissions, a choice of [...] l s include X, S and  a nton, Mississippi. , Tennessee,  Compressor The Nissan Xterra is a front-engine, 2-wheel or 4-wheel drive, five-door … RECOMP (58 tokens) LM  M 20152015<br>Summary<br>Retrieve Compress Prepend<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 1: An illustration of **RECOMP** , which compresses retrieved documents into a texual summary before prepending it as input to a language model at inference time. The compressed summary guides the LM to generate the correct answer, while significantly reducing the computation costs required to encode the documents. 

We propose compressors: (1) _Extractive compressor_ which selects relevant sentences from retrieved document set; (2) _Abstractive compressor_ which generates a summary synthesizing information from multiple retrieved documents. Both compressors implement multi-document query-focused summarization (Xu & Lapata, 2020), where we summarize retrieved evidence document set with respect to the input query. As we aim to enable RALM to generate correct output when summary is prepended to the input query, we design training schemes to optimize the end task performance. Our extractive compressor is trained with a contrastive learning objective to identify sentences that lead to target outputs, and our abstractive compressor is distilled (West et al., 2022) from an extreme-scale LM (e.g. GPT-3), which achieves impressive summarization performance. 

Our experiments show that **RECOMP** can improve performance of frozen LMs on language modeling (Merity et al., 2016) and three question answering datasets (Natural Questions (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019), TriviaQA (Joshi et al., 2017) and HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018)), while prepending significantly fewer tokens compared to RALM without compression. We present two oracle compression methods – an extractive oracle which selects a sentence in evidence documents that leads to the best task performance and an abstractive oracle which chooses between a summary generated by extreme-scale LLM (e.g. GPT-3) and no retrieval augmentation that leads to the best task performance. Both oracle methods achieve a compression rate as low as 6% and significantly _outperforms_ prepending full documents. Our trained compressors also show promising results. For language modelling, both trained compressors achieve a compression ratio of 25% with minimal performance drop. When applied to QA datasets, our best model compresses the documents to 5 - 10% of the original tokens with at most less than 10% relative performance drop. We conclude with careful analyses of our approach that reveal both its strength and weaknesses, thereby building foundation for future work. 

## 2 PROBLEM FORMULATION: **RECOMP** 

Given an input sequence **x** , a target output sequence **y** and a set of _N_ retrieved documents _D_ ([ _d_ 1 _, d_ 2 _, ...dN_ ]),[2] **RECOMP** compresses retrieved documents _D_ with respect to **x** into a summary **s** which captures core information in _D_ relevant to **x** with significantly fewer tokens than _D_ . Our architecture consists of two modules: compressor _cθ_ and LM _M_ . In this work, we assume a blackbox LM and train the compressor. Given the set of retrieved _N_ documents ([ _d_ 1 _, d_ 2 _, ...dN_ ]) and the input sequence **x** , a compressor returns a token sequence **s** . We design our compressor to be substantially smaller than LM _M_ , as we aim to reduce computational costs of encoding a set of retrieved documents. 

The output from compressor, **s** , should be: (1) **Concise** : The summary should be as short as possible to optimize efficiency. If the retrieved documents do not contain relevant information or retrieval augmentation is not necessary, **s** can be an empty sequence. (2) **Effecive** : when **s** is prepended to input sequence **x** and provided to LM _M_ as a prompt, LM should generate the target output sequence **y** . (3) **Faithful** : **s** should be a faithful and interpretable summary of the input document set (i.e., **s** must be entailed by the input document set ([ _d_ 1 _, d_ 2 _, ...dN_ ])). We focus on training compressors for conciseness and effectiveness. We summarize the key ideas for our two compressors, extractive compressors and abstractive compressor here, and discuss their training schemes formally in Section 3. 

> 2Improving retriever is not the focus of this work, so we assume a set of retrieved documents are provided. 

2 

**Extractive Compressor** Given _n_ sentences [ **s1** _,_ **s2** _..._ **sn** ] in the input document set ([ _d_ 1 _, d_ 2 _, ...dN_ ]), we train a dual encoder model `enc` _θ_ which embeds sentence **si** and the input sequence **x** into fixeddimensional embeddings respectively. Their inner product represents how helpful it would be for the LM _M_ to prepend **si** to the input **x** to generate **y** . The final summary **s** from the compressor will be a concatenation of top N sentences ranked by their inner product with the input. As this approach is extractive, we assume the faithfulness criteria is mostly satisfied.[3] 

**Abstractive Compressor** We train an encoder-decoder model `encdec` _θ_ to serve as an abstractive compressor, which takes the input sequence **x** and a concatenation of retrieved document set _D_ [ _d_ 1; _d_ 2; _...dN_ ]) and output a summary **s** . Although we do not have human annotations to train this model, prior work (Goyal et al., 2022; Chen et al., 2023; Potluri et al., 2023) suggests that the extremescale LMs can generate good query-focused summaries when prompted carefully. Yet, using an extreme-scale model as the compressor is not desirable as we want the compressor to be substantially smaller than the LMs. Thus, we perform **distillation** (Hinton et al., 2015) of extreme-scale LMs to build a lightweight abstractive compressor `encdec` _θ_ . We do not train specifically for faithfulness, but later manually evaluate the faithfulness in Section 6. 

## 3 LEARNING THE COMPRESSORS 

Our compressor resembles text summarization models in the output should be faithful to the original input, yet the main goal is different. Instead of capturing salient information for humans readers, compressors aim to produce a concise text that are useful for a LM on an end task. In this section, we describe how to train the extractive compressor (§3.1) and the abstractive compressor (§3.2) leveraging end task signals. Further training details can be found in the Appendix A.2. 

## 3.1 EXTRACTIVE COMPRESSION 

As we formulate extractive compression as a ranking problem, training extractive compressor resembles training a reranker for the retrieved documents[4] with two differences. First, our compressor considers a different granularity of input (sentence) compared to the initial retrieval unit (paragraph). Second, the sentence is evaluated based on whether it is useful as input for the LM _M_ on the downstream task (Shi et al., 2023b; Ram et al., 2023). 

**Model** We train a dual-encoder model `enc` _θ_ which encodes the input context _x_ and the candidate sentence **si** separately. We obtain an embedding of **x** and **si** by taking the representation of the [CLS] token respectively, and compute their similarity by calculating the inner product of the two. We initialize our model with the contriever checkpoint (Izacard et al., 2021). This model consists of 110M parameters, satisfying the efficiency desideratum of compressor. 

**Training** Figure 2 presents pseudocode for training an extractive compressor with contrastive loss for the language modeling task. For each input query **xi** , we identify positive and negative sentences from retrieved documents. 

For each pair of input sequence **xi** and candidate sentences **sj** , we measure 

|**Input:** Base LM _M_, Compressor `enc`_θ_, Training data|
|---|
|_{_**xi**_,_**Si**_,_**yi**_}T_<br>1 where**xi** is input, **Si** = _{_**sj**_}n_<br>1 is a set of|
|candidate sentences from the retrieved documents for**xi**,|
|**yi** is the target answer, and score threshold_ϵ_.<br>**Output:** An updated extractive compressor encoder|
|enc_θ_<br>1: _T ←∅_<br>2: **for**_i ∈{_1_, . . . , T}_**do**<br>3:<br>**pi** _←_argMax**sj**_∈{_**Si**_}_**Score**(_M,_**yi**_,_[**sj**;**xi**])<br>4:<br>**for**_j ∈{_1_, . . . , n}_**do**<br>5:<br>_L ←∅_<br>6:<br>**if**<br>**Score**(_M,_**yi**_,_[**sj**;**xi**])<br>+<br>_ϵ_<br>_<_<br>**Score**(_M,_**yi**_,_[**pi**;**xi**])**then**|
|7:<br>_L ←L ∪_**si**|
|8:<br>**if**_|L| >_0**then**|
|9:<br>_Ni ←_argTop5**sj**_∈L_(_⟨_`enc`_θ_(**sj**)_,_`enc`_θ_(**xi**)_⟩_)|
|10:<br>_T ←T ∪{_(**xi**_,_**pi**_, Ni_)_}_|
|11: `enc`_θ_ =**Finetune**(`enc`_θ, T_)|



Figure 2: Learning an extractive compressor for language modeling task. 

3Recent work (Zhang et al., 2022) shows that extractive approach does not always preserve faithfulness, but such cases are still rare compared to abstractive approaches which can easily hallucinate. 

4Ram et al. (2023) proposes a document reranker based on a cross-encoder model, which is a similar set-up to our sentence selector, but less compute efficient. 

3 

**Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **sj** ; **xi** ]) = log _pM_ ( **y** _|_ [ **sj** ; **xi** ]), log likelihood assigned to target output according to LM _M_ when candidate sentence is prepended to the input. We consider the sentence with the highest log likelihood as a positive example **pi** (line 3). To construct negative examples _Ni_ = _{nk}_[5] _k_ =1[,] we choose up to five sentences with top contriever score that has the log likelihood lower than the positive sentence for a threshold(line 6). 

Training a compressor for QA task works similarly, but scoring will evaluate whether the LM will generate the correct answer with summary prepended (change in line 6). Pseudo code for the QA tasks is in Figure 6 the Appendix. We train our encoder with a contrastive loss (Karpukhin et al., 2020a), maximizing the similarity between positive pairs ( **xi** _, pi_ ) and minimize negative pairs ( **xi** _, Ni_ ). The 

_e[sim]_[(] **[xi]** _[,pi]_[)] training objective is to minimize _−log_[.] _e[sim]_[(] **[xi]** _[,pi]_[)] +[�] _nj ∈Ni[e][sim]_[(] **[xi]** _[,nj]_[ )] 

**Data** For the language modeling task, we generate training data using the training split of the Wikitext-103 dataset, selecting the top 20 sentences from the top 5 BM25 retrieved documents for each input context **x** . For the QA tasks, we generate training data using the training split and consider the top 20 sentences from the top 5 contriever-ms-marco[5] retrieved documents. We report detailed statistics for the training data in Table 5 in the appendix. For each sentence from the retrieved documents, we prepend the Wikipedia page title to it to for decontextualization. 

## 3.2 ABSTRACTIVE COMPRESSION 

To train an abstractive compressor, we distill the query-focused summarization ability of extremescale LM by generating training dataset from it, filter the generated data, and train an encodedr decoder model from the filtered dataset (West et al., 2022). In contrast to prior work (Jung et al., 2023) which use intrinsic summarization metric for filtering, we use the LM’s performance on the end task with the generated summaries prepended for filtering. Fig. 3 presents pseudo algorithm for training the abstractive compressor. 

## 3.2.1 CREATING TRAINING DATASET FOR DISTILLATION 

**Generation From Teacher Model** For the language modeling task, we manually construct four prompts to summarize evidence document set ( _{_ **pi** _}_ 1 _[n]_[).][6][Given an input] **[ x][i]**[, a retrieved doc-] ument set **D** _i_ , and a prompt **pj** to summarize the document set with respect to the input, GPT-3.5 7 generates a summary (line 3). 

**Filtering with Critic** After generating a summary for each prompt template, we select the summary which results in the highest end task performance for each example ( **st** ) as the target summary (line 4-8). **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **sj** ; **xi** ]) is the same as the extractive compressor above. We then compare the end task performance with the target summary prepended and with input **xi** only (i.e. no retrieval) on base model _M_ (line 6). If the end task performance gets worse (e.g., increase in perplexity) when prepending the summary, we set the target summary to an empty string (line 7), otherwise we add the target summary to the training set (line 9). This allows for selective augmentation and mitigates the risk of prepending irrelevant documents. 

**Input:** Teacher LM _M_ t, LM _M_ , Summarization prompt set _{_ **pi** _}_ 1 _[n]_[, Compressor] `[ encdec]` _θ_[, Training] data _{_ **xi** _,_ **Di** _,_ **yi** _}_ 1 _[T]_[where] **[x] i**[is][input,] **[D] i**[is][the] set of retrieved document for **xi** , **yi** is the target answer. **Output:** An updated `encdec` _θ_ 

1: _T ←∅_ 2: **for** _i ∈{_ 1 _, . . . , T }_ **do** 3: _vr ←−∞_ 4: **for** _j ∈{_ 1 _, . . . , n}_ **do** 5: **sj** = **Decode** ( _M_ t _,_ [ **pj** ; **xi** ; **Di** ]) 6: _vj_ = **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **sj** ; **xi** ]) 7: **if** _vj > vr_ **then** 8: **st** _←_ **sj** , _vr ← vj_ 9: _vd_ = **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **xi** ]) 10: **if** _vr < vd_ **then** 11: _T ← T ∪{_ ( **xi** _,_ **Di** _, ∅_ ) _}_ 12: break 13: _T ← T ∪{_ ( **xi** _,_ **Di** _,_ **st** ) _}_ 14: `encdec` _θ_ = **Finetune** ( `encdec` _θ, T_ ) 

Figure 3: Learning an abstractive compressor for language modeling task. 

> 5https://huggingface.co/facebook/contriever-msmarco 

> 6The exact prompts can be found in Table 6 in A.2. 

> 7We use gpt-3.5-turbo in all our experiments. 

4 

Constructing training datasets for the question answering tasks works similarly, with the following modifications. As summarization for the question answering task is more straightforward, we use a single prompt for each dataset. We filter out examples where prepending the summary does not lead to performance improvement. Pseudo code for the QA tasks is in Figure 7 in the Appendix. 

**Model & Training** We use encoder-decoder LM (775M), initialized from T5-large checkpoint (Raffel et al., 2020). This model has been trained with summarization datasets (Hermann et al., 2015). 

**Data** We summarize top 5 retrieved documents for both language modeling and question answering tasks. We generate training examples using 2% of the training set for the Wikitext-103 dataset. We generate training examples from the entire NQ training set and TriviaQA training set. For HotpotQA, we only generate summaries for the training data where the gold answer is in the retrieved documents (56% of the training data) to reduce API costs. We report percentage of data filtered and percentage of empty summaries in Table 5 in A.1. 

## 4 EXPERIMENTAL SETTINGS 

We evaluate our approach on language modeling and open-domain QA following prior work (Shi et al., 2023b; Ram et al., 2023). For both tasks, we report the task performance as a measure of effectiveness and the number of tokens provided in context as a measure of efficiency. 

## 4.1 LANGUAGE MODELING 

We evaluate language modeling perplexity on WikiText-103 (Merity et al., 2016) benchmark on three open-sourced LMs of varying scale: GPT2 (117M), GPT2-XL (1.5B; Radford et al. (2019)) and GPT-J (6B; Wang & Komatsuzaki (2021)). We train our compressors using GPT2 as the base model and evaluate whether the trained compressor transfer to GPT2-XL and GPT-J. We use the BM25 retriever (Robertson & Zaragoza, 2009) to retrieve from the Wikipedia corpus from Dec. 20, 2018 (Karpukhin et al., 2020a). The articles are then truncated into non-overlapping documents of 100 words. During retrieval, articles containing the input sequence **x** is removed from the corpus to prevent data contamination. Following Ram et al. (2023), we perform retrieval every 32 tokens. 

## 4.2 OPEN-DOMAIN QA 

**Datasets** We evaluate our model on three benchmark dataset: Natural Questions (NQ) (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019), TriviaQA (Joshi et al., 2017)) and HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018). We report results on development set of NQ, test set of TriviaQA and randomly sampled 500 examples from HotpotQA development set. We report Exact Match (EM) and F1token-level F1 of answer strings to measure end task performance. 

**Base Language Models & Retrieval Corpus** We use Flan-UL2 (20B)(Chung et al., 2022), a large scale instruction-tuned LM. We use contriever model trained on MS MARCO dataset (Campos et al., 2016) as a retriever on Wikipedia corpus from Dec. 20, 2018 for all three datasets. The articles are truncated into non-overlapping documents of 100 words. 

**Prompt Format** We include few-shot in-context examples in the prompt, followed by the retrieved documents and the question. We use five randomly sampled training examples as in-context examples, which constitutes 110, 147, and 149 tokens on average for NQ, TQA and HotpotQA respectively. For retrieved documents, we concatenate them in ascending order of retrieval score, with the highest scored document closest to the question (Si et al., 2022). We do not include the retrieved documents for in-context examples as it did not improve performance. An example input can be found in Appendix Table 7. 

## 4.3 BASELINES AND ORACLES 

**Baselines** We first consider two heuristic token and phrase-level compression methods: **BoW** , which converts the retrieved documents to a list of ordered unigram and concatenates them together 

5 

Table 1: Results on language modeling task. We report results on GPT-2, GPT2-XL and GPT-J with compressors trained with GPT-2. 

||**In-Domain**|**In-Domain**||**Out-Domain**|**Out-Domain**||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||**GPT2 (117M)**||**_GPT2-XL (1.5B_)**||**_GPT-J_**|**_(6B)_**|
|**In-context Evidence**|**# tokens**|**PPL**|**# tokens**|**PPL**|**# tokens**|**PPL**|
|-|0|37.84|0|19.89|0|11.44|
|**_RALM without compression_**|||||||
|Top 1 document|141|32.90|14|17.86|141|10.57|
|Top 5 documents|512|35.53|-|-|-|-|
|**_Phrase/token level compression_**|||||||
|Top 1 document (BoW)|66|36.13|66|18.85|66|10.97|
|Top 1 document (NE)|34|37.23|33|19.67|33|11.39|
|**_Extractive compression of Top 5 documents_**|||**_(select top_**|**_1 sentence)_**|||
|_Oracle_|32|30.36|32|16.58|31|9.92|
|_Oracle (w/ gpt2)_|32|30.36|32|16.99|32|10.22|
|Random|27|36.98|27|19.55|27|11.32|
|BM25|33|36.63|33|19.02|33|11.08|
|Contriever|33|35.54|33|18.98|33|11.05|
|Ours (init. w/ Contriever)|31|33.67|31|18.19|31|10.73|
|**_Abstractive compression_**|**_of Top 5 documents_**||||||
|_Oracle_|68|30.67|66|16.87|65|10.10|
|_Oracle (w/ gpt2)_|68|30.67|68|17.23|68|10.37|
|_GPT-3.5_|33|34.84|33|18.70|33|10.96|
|T5|**15**|37.80|**15**|19.92|**15**|11.5|
|Ours (init. w/ T5)|15|**33.64**|15|**18.09**|15|**10.66**|



and **Named Entities (NE)** , which extracts a list of ordered named entities from retrieved documents and concatenates them. For the extractive compressor on the language modeling task, we use **BM25** and **Contriever** Izacard et al. (2021), which rank the sentences by their similarity to the input **x** as baselines. For the QA datasets, we report results using **BM25** , **Contriever** finetuned on MS MARCO and **DPR** (Karpukhin et al., 2020b) fine-tuned on NQ. We also report a **Random** baseline which randomly selects a sentence from the retrieved documents. For abstractive compression, we report the performance of the off-the-shelf **T5 (large, 770M)** model and that of **GPT-3.5** model. As we experimented with multiple prompts for the language modeling task, we report the performance of the summaries generated by **GPT-3.5** model with the best single prompt. 

**Oracle** We explore the performance upper bound of compressioin by considering two oracle approaches. For the extractive approach, we construct oracle compressor by considering all sentences _si_ in the evidence document set and choosing the sentence that leads to the best end task performance (i.e., lowest perplexity or highest answer accuracy) for each example. For the abstractive approach, we consider summaries generated from different prompts ( _{_ **sj** _}_ 1 _[n]_[in Figure 3) and empty summary,] and choose the one that leads to the best end task performance. As oracle compression is model dependent, we also report model-independent results by always using GPT-2 as a reference LM ( _Oracle w/ gpt2_ ) to test how well oracle sentences for one model transfer to other models for the language modeling task. 

## 5 RESULTS 

**Language modeling** Table 1 reports the results on language modeling task. _All_ retrieval augmentation methods improve perplexity over no retrieval setting across three LMs. Heuristic token / phrase-level compression methods (BoW and NE) are worse than prepending uncompressed documents, potentially due to the disfluency of the prepended text. 

Both oracle settings show substantial gain over prepending the entire document set, with only 6-13% of tokens. More tokens are not always better: prepending top 1 document outperforms prepending top 5 documents. This confirms that the naive retrieve-and-prepend approach has a significant room for improvement, as prepending irrelevant documents can hurt performances. 

6 

Table 2: Open-domain QA results with Flan-UL2 (20B) as the LM _M_ . We report number of tokens provided as in-context evidence document, excluding the in-context examples. We train separate compressors (one extractive, one abstractive) for each dataset. Extractive compressor selects one sentence for NQ/TQA, and two sentences for HotpotQA. 

||**NQ**<br>**TQA**<br>**HotpotQA**<br>**In-Context evidence**<br>**# tok**<br>**EM**<br>**F1**<br>**# tok**<br>**EM**<br>**F1**<br>**# tok**<br>**EM**<br>**F1**|
|---|---|
||-<br>0<br>21.99<br>29.38<br>0<br>49.33<br>54.85<br>0<br>17.80<br>26.10|
||**_RALM without compression_**<br>Top 1 documents<br>132<br>33.07<br>41.45<br>136<br>57.84<br>64.94<br>138<br>28.80<br>40.58<br>Top 5 documents<br>660<br>**39.39**<br>**48.28**<br>677<br>**62.37**<br>**70.09**<br>684<br>**32.80**<br>**43.90**|
||**_Phrase/token level compression_**<br>Top 5 documents (NE)<br>338<br>23.60<br>31.02<br>128<br>54.96<br>61.19<br>157<br>22.20<br>31.89<br>Top 5 documents (BoW)<br>450<br>28.48<br>36.84<br>259<br>58.16<br>65.15<br>255<br>25.60<br>36.00|
||**_Extractive compression of top 5 documents_**<br>_Oracle_<br>34<br>60.22<br>64.25<br>32<br>79.29<br>82.06<br>70<br>41.80<br>51.07<br>Random<br>32<br>23.27<br>31.09<br>31<br>50.18<br>56.24<br>61<br>21.00<br>29.86<br>BM25<br>36<br>25.82<br>33.63<br>37<br>54.67<br>61.19<br>74<br>26.80<br>38.02<br>DPR<br>39<br>34.32<br>43.38<br>41<br>56.58<br>62.96<br>78<br>27.40<br>38.15<br>Contriever<br>36<br>30.06<br>31.92<br>40<br>53.67<br>60.01<br>78<br>28.60<br>39.48<br>Ours<br>37<br>36.57<br>44.22<br>38<br>**58.99**<br>65.26<br>75<br>**30.40**<br>**40.14**|
|||
|||
||**_Abstractive compression of top 5 documents_**<br>_Oracle_<br>51<br>45.68<br>53.66<br>37<br>71.01<br>76.38<br>102<br>35.80<br>46.25<br>_GPT-3.5_<br>56<br>37.12<br>46.35<br>41<br>62.03<br>69.66<br>107<br>31.60<br>42.65<br>T5<br>**10**<br>25.90<br>34.63<br>**7**<br>55.18<br>62.34<br>**7**<br>23.20<br>33.19<br>Ours<br>36<br>**37.04**<br>**45.47**<br>32<br>58.68<br>**66.34**<br>64<br>28.20<br>37.91|
|||
|||



Our trained extractive compressor significantly outperforms other extractive baselines (Contriever and BM25) across all three LMs, while prepending slightly fewer tokens. Comparing to prepending one document, we achieve a compression ratio of 25% at minimum performance drop. Our trained abstractive compressor performs the best across the board, achieving the lowest perplexity **and** the highest compression ratio. Our abstractive compressor achieves high compression rate through selective augmentation, prepending summaries to only 33% of examples (length distribution of generated summaries in Fig. 8). 

**Open-domain QA** We report the results on QA tasks in Table 2. Similar to the language modeling task, all retrieval augmentation methods improve performance over no retrieval setting, across three datasets, consistent with previous study on other LMs (Shi et al., 2023b; Mallen et al., 2022; Si et al., 2022). Unlike language modeling, prepending five documents shows significant gains over prepending a single document, motivating the use of compression to incorporate more documents. 

We find that extractive oracle outperforms the abstractive one in all datasets. Extractive oracle selects the best one from _N_ candidate sentences, while abstractive oracle selects from two options – prepending GPT-3.5 summary or prepending nothing. Both oracles show improvements over prepending all information, suggesting that removing irrelevant information benefit the model.[8] 

Among extractive baselines, DPR performs the best as it has been fine-tuned on high-quality NQ data. On NQ, selecting the top 1 DPR ranked sentences from top 5 documents outperforms prepending top 1 document, with much fewer tokens (39 vs. 132). However, its performance degrades in out of domain datasets. Off-the-shelf summarization model (T5) boasts the highest level of compression, achieving 4-6 points gains in EM while adding mere 7-10 tokens. 

The trained compressors, both extractive and abstractive, shows promising performances. On NQ and TQA, the abstractive approach is more effective. On NQ, it achieves a compression ratio of 5% tokens while losing 2 EM points compared to prepending full documents. On TQA, we observe similar trends, compression ratio of 5% tokens while losing 3.7 EM points compared to prepending full sets of documents. On HotpotQA that requires multihop understanding of documents, we 

8 We provide an example where our compressed summary yields correct answer while prepending full document does not in Table 9 in the appendix. 

7 

find extractive approach to be more helpful, achieving 11% compression rate while losing 2.4 EM points compared to prepending full documents. We find that learning an abstractive compressor for more complex tasks, such as HotpotQA, demands further study. While extreme-scale LLM boasts competitive summarization performance under single document setting, they are not good at synthesizing information from multiple documents (Shaib et al. (2023) and hallucinate more often; See Section 6 for further analysis). 

## 6 ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSIONS 

**Transferring Across Different LMs** One benefit of textual summary is that they can transfer to other LMs, unlike approaches such as soft prompts (Wingate et al., 2022; Chevalier et al., 2023; Mu et al., 2023). We evaluate whether our compressors trained to achieve high performance with respect to a specific LM (GPT2 for language modeling, FlanUL2 for open domain QA) can transfer to other LMs. For language modeling, we find that trained compressor transfers well to other LMs (GPT2-XL and GPT-J), despite they are much larger LMs (Table 1. For open domain QA, we tested transferring our compressors to LLaMA-13B (Touvron et al., 2023) model. The results can be found in Table 10 in the appendix. Overall, the performance is worse than the LM from which compressors are trained on, sometimes unable to outperform other compression baselines (e.g., no clear gain from using contriever vs. our trained contriever on TQA/HotpotQA), leaving considerable gap to the oracle compressions for LLAMA itself. Yet, on NQ/TQA, our compressor obtains 5% compression ratio with less than 5 EM drop compared to full document setting, showing the robustness of our retrieve-compress-prepend paradigm. 

**==> picture [159 x 64] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 4: Histogram of abstractive summary length (# tokens) distribution. 

**How do the length of the summaries vary?** Can the learned compressor reliably determine when LMs require retrieved documents or not? As retrieved documents were **hurting** the model performances for some input queries, 4-24% of training examples for abstractive compressors contain empty summary. Fig. 4 presents the length distribution of abstractive summaries on NQ and Wikitext (histograms for other datasets is in Fig. 8 in the appendix). The input document lengths do not vary significantly across 

examples, yet we find the abstractive summary vary significantly in length, suggesting abstractive compressor enables selective retrieval augmentation. We have not experimented selective compression with extractive compressor, fixing the number of prepended sentences for the entire dataset (1 for Wikitext, 1 for NQ/TQA, 2 for HotpotQA). Allowing adaptive augmentation with extractive summarizer can be a promising direction for future work. 

**How does model leverage the in-context documents?** We evaluate whether retrieval augmented LMs tend to copy answers verbatim from in-context evidence documents or generate answers not present in the documents. This is an desired behavior _only_ when the gold answer is in the evidence. We first report how frequently a gold answer span is present in evidence text (% Gold in Evi). As expected, full documents contain the answer most frequently, followed by NE and GPT-3. However, having more gold answers in the evidence doesn’t equate to better performance, as the model cannot always identify the correct answer from the evidence (84 % for **NE** v.s. 98% for **T5(ours)** ). 

Table 3: Analysis on in-context evidence to answer questions in NQ dev set. For the last column, we report how frequently model copies from its evidence on (1) a subset where gold answer is in the evidence document / (2) when it is not. 

||**Evidence**<br>**EM**<br>**%Gold in Evi.**<br>**%Pred in Evi.**<br>Top 1<br>33.1<br>36<br>92 / 51<br>Top 5<br>39.3<br>**57**<br>96 / 81<br>NE<br>26.0<br>46<br>84 / 48|
|---|---|
||Oracle sent<br>60.2<br>34<br>93 / 16|
||Contriever<br>30.2<br>25<br>88 / 36<br>Ours<br>36.6<br>28<br>90 / 33<br>GPT-3.5<br>37.1<br>45<br>**98**/**85**<br>T5<br>25.9<br>30<br>52 / 20<br>Ours<br>37.0<br>34<br>**98**/ 39|



We also observe that model can be easily disOurs 37.0 34 **98** / 39 tracted by irrelevant contexts, copying from a document span even when it does not contain gold answer, echoing findings from prior work (Shi et al., 2023a). Prepending top 5 documents has 

8 

a higher frequency (81%) of copying incorrectly compared to top 1 document (51%), and GPT-3 compression leads to an even higher incorrect copying frequency (85%), potentially as query-focused summarization generates sentences that seemingly contains the answer. Our compressor successfully reduce such erroneous behavior to 39%. 

**Is generated summary faithful and comprehensive?** We (the authors) manually evaluate outputs of the abstractive compressors on two axes (Chen et al., 2023): **Faithfulness** : whether the summary can be entailed by the retrieved documents, **Comprehensiveness** : whether the summary contains sufficient information to answer the question, regardless of whether the generated information comes from the retrieved documents. For both, we select one of three labels: **Y** es, **P** artially, **No** , and report the % of **Useful** summaries which are both faithful and comprehensive. Annotation sample can be found in Table 11 in the appendix. We evaluate the summaries generated by GPT-3.5 and our abstractive compressor. We randomly sample 30 non-empty summaries from the test set. 

Table 4 presents annotation results. GPT-3.5, substantially bigger than our compressor, generates more useful summary across all three datasets. Overall, our abstractive compressors were less faithful compared to the original GPT-3.5, while improving comprehensiveness. The effectiveness of summarization also depends on the datasets – summaries from both models were the most faithful for TQA and the least faithful for HotpotQA dataset. In terms of comprehensive- 

Table 4: Manual analysis on abstractive summaries generated for NQ, TQA and HotpotQA (HQA) dataset. 

||**Dataset**|**Model**|**%**<br>Y|**Faithful**<br>P<br>N|**Faithful**<br>P<br>N|**%**<br>Y|**Compre.**<br>P<br>N|**Compre.**<br>P<br>N|**%**|**Use.**|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||NQ|GPT-3.5<br>Ours|90<br>80|0<br>13|10<br>7|97<br>100|0<br>0|3<br>0||83<br>80|
||TQA|GPT-3.5<br>Ours|97<br>83|0<br>3|3<br>14|90<br>96|0<br>0|10<br>4||83<br>77|
||HQA|GPT-3.5<br>Ours|74<br>67|0<br>0|26<br>33|78<br>74|0<br>0|22<br>26||50<br>40|



ness, we find both models easily find the information for NQ, but struggle with HotpotQA. These results partially explain why the performance gain was limited for HotpotQA. 

## 7 RELATED WORK 

**Efficient RALM** He et al. (2021) improves efficiency of RALMs by improving retrieval components, such as data store compression, dimensionality reduction for neural retriever. A line of work also introduces reducing retrieval frequency through selective retrieval (He et al., 2021; Mallen et al., 2022) or using a larger stride (Martins et al., 2022). In this work, we improve efficiency of RALM by compressing retrieved documents into a concise summary or an empty sequence, facilitating selective retrieval augmentation. 

**Prompt Compression** Recent work (Wingate et al., 2022; Chevalier et al., 2023; Mu et al., 2023) proposes compressing long contexts into summary vectors (soft prompts) that can be used by LMs, rather than shorter textual summaries. Such soft prompts can serve as efficient replacements for plain-text demonstrations, minimizing the computational costs during inference. Another related line of work proposes context distillation (Snell et al., 2022; Choi et al., 2022; Padmanabhan et al., 2023), which injects the prepended context into the parameters of an LM. Compared to above approaches, our approach yields more interpretable textual summary that can transfer across different LMs, and can be applied to black box LMs without requiring gradient updates. Prior work has studied textual compression for other tasks, such as political fact checking (Chen et al., 2023) and instruction learning (Yin et al., 2023). 

**Distillation / Goal Oriented Summarization** Recent work introduces symbolic knowledge distillation (West et al., 2022), which transfers knowledge from a teacher model by generating a training dataset with the teacher model and train a student model on it. For better performance, they introduce critic criteria, which filter undesirable examples from generated training dataset. Such distillation technique has been applied for various applications including summarization (Jung et al., 2023), which aims to generate high quality summaries while we optimize for generating effective summary for downstream LMs. One work that is similar to our setting is Hsu & Tan (2021) which trains an 

9 

extractive summarization model to optimize for prediction accuracy of a sentiment prediction model based on the summary. 

## 8 CONCLUSION 

We introduce **RECOMP** , a method which compresses retrieved documents into textual summaries before prepending them to improve in-context retrieval augmented language models. We present two compression models – an extractive compressor and an abstractive compressor. We design a training scheme which leverages end task signals from a blackbox LM to generate useful summaries and allowing the compression models to perform selective augmentation. Our experiments show that our compressors can improve the efficiency of retrieval augmented LMs significantly with minimal drop in performances. 

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

We thank the members of the UT and UW NLP community for feedback on the project. We especially thank Alisa Liu, Junyi Jessy Li and Greg Durrett for providing comments on the draft. The project is partially funded by NSF grant (IIS-2312948). 

## ETHICS STATEMENT 

We use commercial language model to generate training data for our compressors, which might include factual error. We conduct careful human evaluation on the data generated and present our analysis in the paper. 

## REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT 

We release our codes, prompt, and data generated with API access publicly. 

## REFERENCES 

- Iz Beltagy, Matthew E. Peters, and Arman Cohan. Longformer: The long-document transformer. _ArXiv_ , abs/2004.05150, 2020. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 215737171. 

- Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie Millican, George Bm Van Den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, Diego De Las Casas, Aurelia Guy, Jacob Menick, Roman Ring, Tom Hennigan, Saffron Huang, Loren Maggiore, Chris Jones, Albin Cassirer, Andy Brock, Michela Paganini, Geoffrey Irving, Oriol Vinyals, Simon Osindero, Karen Simonyan, Jack Rae, Erich Elsen, and Laurent Sifre. Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In Kamalika Chaudhuri, Stefanie Jegelka, Le Song, Csaba Szepesvari, Gang Niu, and Sivan Sabato (eds.), _Proceedings of the 39th International Conference on Machine Learning_ , volume 162 of _Proceedings of Machine Learning Research_ , pp. 2206–2240. PMLR, 17–23 Jul 2022. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v162/borgeaud22a.html. 

- Daniel Fernando Campos, Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder, Li Deng, and Bhaskar Mitra. Ms marco: A human generated machine reading comprehension dataset. _ArXiv_ , abs/1611.09268, 2016. URL https://api.semanticscholar. org/CorpusID:1289517. 

- Jifan Chen, Grace Kim, Aniruddh Sriram, Greg Durrett, and Eunsol Choi. Complex claim verification with evidence retrieved in the wild. _ArXiv_ , abs/2305.11859, 2023. URL https: //api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258822852. 

- Alexis Chevalier, Alexander Wettig, Anirudh Ajith, and Danqi Chen. Adapting language models to compress contexts. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14788_ , 2023. 

10 

- Eunbi Choi, Yongrae Jo, Joel Jang, and Minjoon Seo. Prompt injection: Parameterization of fixed inputs. _ArXiv_ , abs/2206.11349, 2022. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/ CorpusID:249953762. 

- Hyung Won Chung, Le Hou, S. Longpre, Barret Zoph, Yi Tay, William Fedus, Eric Li, Xuezhi Wang, Mostafa Dehghani, Siddhartha Brahma, Albert Webson, Shixiang Shane Gu, Zhuyun Dai, Mirac Suzgun, Xinyun Chen, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Dasha Valter, Sharan Narang, Gaurav Mishra, Adams Wei Yu, Vincent Zhao, Yanping Huang, Andrew M. Dai, Hongkun Yu, Slav Petrov, Ed Huai hsin Chi, Jeff Dean, Jacob Devlin, Adam Roberts, Denny Zhou, Quoc V. Le, and Jason Wei. Scaling instruction-finetuned language models. _ArXiv_ , abs/2210.11416, 2022. 

- Tanya Goyal, Junyi Jessy Li, and Greg Durrett. News summarization and evaluation in the era of gpt-3. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.12356_ , 2022. 

- Junxian He, Graham Neubig, and Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick. Efficient nearest neighbor language models. In _Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing_ , pp. 5703–5714, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, November 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.461. URL https: //aclanthology.org/2021.emnlp-main.461. 

- Karl Moritz Hermann, Tomas Kocisk´ y, Edward Grefenstette, Lasse Espeholt, Will Kay, Mustafa´ Suleyman, and Phil Blunsom. Teaching machines to read and comprehend. _ArXiv_ , abs/1506.03340, 2015. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:6203757. 

- Geoffrey E. Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeffrey Dean. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network. _ArXiv_ , abs/1503.02531, 2015. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 7200347. 

- Matthew Honnibal, Ines Montani, Sophie Van Landeghem, and Boyd Adriane. spaCy: Industrialstrength natural language processing in python, 2020. 

- Chao-Chun Hsu and Chenhao Tan. Decision-focused summarization. In _Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing_ , pp. 117–132, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, November 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.10. URL https://aclanthology.org/2021. emnlp-main.10. 

- Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. Unsupervised dense information retrieval with contrastive learning, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.09118. 

- Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane A. Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard Grave. Few-shot learning with retrieval augmented language models. _ArXiv_ , abs/2208.03299, 2022. 

- Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel S Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Triviaqa: A large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehension. _arXiv preprint 1705.03551_ , 2017. 

- Jaehun Jung, Peter West, Liwei Jiang, Faeze Brahman, Ximing Lu, Jillian Fisher, Taylor Sorensen, and Yejin Choi. Impossible distillation: from low-quality model to high-quality dataset & model for summarization and paraphrasing. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16635_ , 2023. 

- Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen-tau Yih. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. In _Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)_ , pp. 6769–6781, Online, November 2020a. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.550. URL https://aclanthology.org/2020. emnlp-main.550. 

- Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz,˘ Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Yu Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen tau Yih. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. In _Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing_ , 2020b. URL https: //api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:215737187. 

11 

- Urvashi Khandelwal, Omer Levy, Dan Jurafsky, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Mike Lewis. Generalization through memorization: Nearest neighbor language models. _ArXiv_ , abs/1911.00172, 2019. 

- Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. _CoRR_ , abs/1412.6980, 2014. 

- Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina Toutanova, Llion Jones, Matthew Kelcey, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M. Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering research. _Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics_ , 7:452–466, 2019. doi: 10.1162/tacl ~~a 0~~ 0276. URL https://aclanthology.org/Q19-1026. 

- Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandara Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Kuttler, Mike Lewis, Wen tau Yih, Tim Rocktaschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela.¨ Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. _ArXiv_ , abs/2005.11401, 2020. 

- Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paranjape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts. _arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03172_ , 2023. 

- Alex Mallen, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong, Rajarshi Das, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Daniel Khashabi. When not to trust language models: Investigating effectiveness and limitations of parametric and non-parametric memories. _ArXiv_ , abs/2212.10511, 2022. 

- Pedro Henrique Martins, Zita Marinho, and Andre´ F. T. Martins. Chunk-based nearest neighbor machine translation. In _Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing_ , pp. 4228–4245, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2022.emnlp-main.284. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.emnlp-main.284. 

- Stephen Merity, Caiming Xiong, James Bradbury, and Richard Socher. Pointer sentinel mixture models. _ArXiv_ , abs/1609.07843, 2016. 

- Jesse Mu, Xiang Lisa Li, and Noah D. Goodman. Learning to compress prompts with gist tokens. _ArXiv_ , abs/2304.08467, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 258179012. 

- Shankar Padmanabhan, Yasumasa Onoe, Michael J.Q. Zhang, Greg Durrett, and Eunsol Choi. Propagating knowledge updates to lms through distillation. _ArXiv_ , abs/2306.09306, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:259165330. 

- Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, Patrick Lewis, Majid Yazdani, Nicola De Cao, James Thorne, Yacine Jernite, Vladimir Karpukhin, Jean Maillard, Vassilis Plachouras, Tim Rocktaschel, and Sebastian Riedel.¨ KILT: a benchmark for knowledge intensive language tasks. In _Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies_ , pp. 2523–2544, Online, June 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2021.naacl-main.200. URL https: //aclanthology.org/2021.naacl-main.200. 

- Abhilash Potluri, Fangyuan Xu, and Eunsol Choi. Concise answers to complex questions: Summarization of long-form answers. In _Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)_ , pp. 9709–9728, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.541. URL https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.541. 

- Alec Radford, Jeff Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. 2019. 

- Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. _The Journal of Machine Learning Research_ , 21(1):5485–5551, 2020. 

12 

- Ori Ram, Yoav Levine, Itay Dalmedigos, Dor Muhlgay, Amnon Shashua, Kevin Leyton-Brown, and Yoav Shoham. In-context retrieval-augmented language models. _ArXiv_ , abs/2302.00083, 2023. 

- Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERTnetworks. In _Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLPIJCNLP)_ , pp. 3982–3992, Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D19-1410. URL https://aclanthology.org/D19-1410. 

- Stephen E. Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and beyond. _Found. Trends Inf. Retr._ , 3:333–389, 2009. 

- Chantal Shaib, Millicent Li, Sebastian Joseph, Iain Marshall, Junyi Jessy Li, and Byron Wallace. Summarizing, simplifying, and synthesizing medical evidence using GPT-3 (with varying success). In _Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers)_ , pp. 1387–1407, Toronto, Canada, July 2023. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2023.acl-short.119. URL https: //aclanthology.org/2023.acl-short.119. 

- Freda Shi, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra, Nathan Scales, David Dohan, Ed Huai hsin Chi, Nathanael Scharli, and Denny Zhou. Large language models can be easily distracted by irrelevant context. In _International Conference on Machine Learning_ , 2023a. URL https: //api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:256459776. 

- Weijia Shi, Sewon Min, Michihiro Yasunaga, Minjoon Seo, Rich James, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Wen tau Yih. Replug: Retrieval-augmented black-box language models. _ArXiv_ , abs/2301.12652, 2023b. 

- Chenglei Si, Zhe Gan, Zhengyuan Yang, Shuohang Wang, Jianfeng Wang, Jordan L. Boyd-Graber, and Lijuan Wang. Prompting gpt-3 to be reliable. _ArXiv_ , abs/2210.09150, 2022. 

- Charles Burton Snell, Dan Klein, and Ruiqi Zhong. Learning by distilling context. _ArXiv_ , abs/2209.15189, 2022. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 252668389. 

- Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin R. Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, Daniel M. Bikel, Lukas Blecher, Cristian Canton Ferrer, Moya Chen, Guillem Cucurull, David Esiobu, Jude Fernandes,´ Jeremy Fu, Wenyin Fu, Brian Fuller, Cynthia Gao, Vedanuj Goswami, Naman Goyal, Anthony S. Hartshorn, Saghar Hosseini, Rui Hou, Hakan Inan, Marcin Kardas, Viktor Kerkez, Madian Khabsa, Isabel M. Kloumann, A. V. Korenev, Punit Singh Koura, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Thibaut Lavril, Jenya Lee, Diana Liskovich, Yinghai Lu, Yuning Mao, Xavier Martinet, Todor Mihaylov, Pushkar Mishra, Igor Molybog, Yixin Nie, Andrew Poulton, Jeremy Reizenstein, Rashi Rungta, Kalyan Saladi, Alan Schelten, Ruan Silva, Eric Michael Smith, R. Subramanian, Xia Tan, Binh Tang, Ross Taylor, Adina Williams, Jian Xiang Kuan, Puxin Xu, Zhengxu Yan, Iliyan Zarov, Yuchen Zhang, Angela Fan, Melanie Kambadur, Sharan Narang, Aurelien Rodriguez, Robert Stojnic, Sergey Edunov, and Thomas Scialom. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. _ArXiv_ , abs/2307.09288, 2023. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID: 259950998. 

- Ben Wang and Aran Komatsuzaki. GPT-J-6B: A 6 Billion Parameter Autoregressive Language Model. https://github.com/kingoflolz/mesh-transformer-jax, May 2021. 

- Peter West, Chandra Bhagavatula, Jack Hessel, Jena Hwang, Liwei Jiang, Ronan Le Bras, Ximing Lu, Sean Welleck, and Yejin Choi. Symbolic knowledge distillation: from general language models to commonsense models. In _Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies_ , pp. 4602–4625, Seattle, United States, July 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/ 2022.naacl-main.341. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.naacl-main.341. 

13 

- David Wingate, Mohammad Shoeybi, and Taylor Sorensen. Prompt compression and contrastive conditioning for controllability and toxicity reduction in language models. In _Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022_ , pp. 5621–5634, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, December 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2022.findings-emnlp.412. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022. findings-emnlp.412. 

- Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Remi´ Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, and Jamie Brew. Huggingface’s transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing. _ArXiv_ , abs/1910.03771, 2019. 

- Yumo Xu and Mirella Lapata. Coarse-to-fine query focused multi-document summarization. In _Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing_ , 2020. URL https://api. semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:226262229. 

- Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio, William W. Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D. Manning. HotpotQA: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering. In _Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)_ , 2018. 

- Fan Yin, Jesse Vig, Philippe Laban, Shafiq R. Joty, Caiming Xiong, and Chien-Sheng Wu. Did you read the instructions? rethinking the effectiveness of task definitions in instruction learning. In _Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics_ , 2023. URL https://api. semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:259063796. 

- Manzil Zaheer, Guru Guruganesh, Kumar Avinava Dubey, Joshua Ainslie, Chris Alberti, Santiago Ontan˜on,´ Philip Pham, Anirudh Ravula, Qifan Wang, Li Yang, and Amr Ahmed. Big bird: Transformers for longer sequences. _ArXiv_ , abs/2007.14062, 2020. URL https: //api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:220831004. 

- Shiyue Zhang, David Wan, and Mohit Bansal. Extractive is not faithful: An investigation of broad unfaithfulness problems in extractive summarization. _ArXiv_ , abs/2209.03549, 2022. URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:252118883. 

14 

**==> picture [396 x 224] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 5: We report the data distribution on NQ dev set, TriviaQA dev set and HotpotQA dev set comparing the end task performance when prepending the oracle compression method (oracle sentence or GPT-3 summaries) and when not prepending anything for the base model (Flan-UL2). 

## A APPENDIX 

## A.1 COMPRESSOR TRAINING DATA GENERATION 

We report the statistics of the data used to train compressors in Table 5. We use SpaCy (Honnibal et al., 2020) to extract named entities. 

**Extractive Data Generation** We generate data using the training data for the four datasets we tested (Wikitext, NQ, TQA and HotpotQA). We use the NLTK package to perform sentence splitting. We remove examples without any negatives. 

**Abstractive Data Generation** We report prompt used to generate summaries in Table 8. We queried the Open AI API with temperature of 0.7 and top p = 1. For the language modeling task, we use an ensemble of four prompts and choose the one which leads to the lowest perplexity as the target. If none of the summaries lead to perplexity decrease, we treat an empty summary as target. We queried the OpenAI API with temperature of 0.7 and top p = 1. We generate four summaries per example for randomly sampled 2% of the training data (48,013 examples). 

## A.2 COMPRESSOR TRAINING DETAILS 

**Extractive Compressor** For language modeling, we use the contriever checkpoint[9] trained with unsupervised data. For the QA tasks, we use the contriever checkpoint fine-tuned on the MSMARCO task (Campos et al., 2016)[10] , following prior work (Si et al., 2022; Shi et al., 2023b). We implement the model using the Transformers (Wolf et al., 2019) and the sentence-transformer library (Reimers & Gurevych, 2019). We train with Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba, 2014), using a batch size of 64, learning rate of 2e-5 and 1000 warmup steps for 3 epochs. We report results on the model with the best reranked perplexity on our validation set for the language modeling task and the best reranked accuracy for the QA tasks. 

> 9https://huggingface.co/facebook/contriever 

> 10https://huggingface.co/facebook/contriever-msmarco 

15 

**Input:** Base LM _M_ , Compressor encoder `enc` _θ_ , Training data _{_ **xi** _,_ **Si** _,_ **yi** _}_ 1 _[T]_[where] **[ x] i**[is input,] **[ S] i**[=] _[ {]_ **[s] j** _[}]_ 1 _[n]_ is a set of candidate sentences from the retrieved document for **xi** , **yi** is the target answer. **Output:** An updated extractive compressor encoder enc _θ_ 1: _T ←∅_ 2: **for** _i ∈{_ 1 _, . . . , T }_ **do** 3: **pi** _←_ argMax **sj** _∈{_ **Si** _}_ **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **sj** ; **xi** ]) 4: **for** _j ∈{_ 1 _, . . . , n}_ **do** 5: _L ←∅_ 6: **if Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **sj** ; **xi** ]) _<_ **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **pi** ; **xi** ]) **then** 7: _L ←L ∪_ **si** 8: **if** _|L| >_ 0 **then** 9: _Ni ←_ argTop5 **sj** _∈L_ ( _⟨_ `enc` _θ_ ( **sj** ) _,_ `enc` _θ_ ( **xi** ) _⟩_ ) 10: _T ←T ∪{_ ( **xi** _,_ **pi** _, Ni_ ) _}_ 11: `enc` _θ_ = **Finetune** ( `enc` _θ, T_ ) 

Figure 6: Learning an extractive compressor for QA task. The **Score** here is the exact match between the decoded answer and the gold answers. 

**Input:** Teacher LM _M_ t, Base LM _M_ , Summarization prompt _p_ , Compressor `encdec` _θ_ , Training data _{_ **xi** _,_ **Di** _,_ **yi** _}_ 1 _[T]_[where] **[ x] i**[is input,] **[ D] i**[is the set of retrieved document for] **[ x] i**[,] **[ y] i**[is the target answer.] **Output:** An updated `encdec` _θ_ 

1: _T ←∅_ 2: **for** _i ∈{_ 1 _, . . . , T }_ **do** 3: **si** = **Decode** ( _M_ t _,_ [ **p** ; **xi** ; **Di** ]) 4: _vs_ = **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **si** ; **xi** ]) 5: _vd_ = **Score** ( _M,_ **yi** _,_ [ **xi** ]) 6: **if** _vs < vd_ **then** 7: _T ← T ∪{_ ( **xi** _,_ **Di** _, ∅_ ) _}_ 8: break 9: _T ← T ∪{_ ( **xi** _,_ **Di** _,_ **si** ) _}_ 10: `encdec` _θ_ = **Finetune** ( `encdec` _θ, T_ ) 

Figure 7: Learning an abstractive compressor for QA task. The **Score** here is the exact match between the decoded answer and the gold answers. 

16 

Table 5: Training data statistics for abstractive and extractive compressors. 

|**Dataset**|Train|**Extractive**<br>Validation<br>% fltered|**Extractive**<br>Validation<br>% fltered|_|N|_|Train|**Abstractive**<br>Validation<br>% fltered|**Abstractive**<br>Validation<br>% fltered|% empty|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|NQ|42,149|9,769|46|4.44|39,466|4,931|50|25|
|TQA|70,032|8,753|56|4.37|48,322|5,887|32|16|
|HotpotQA|24,526|3,068|69|4.33|26,556|2,937|42|4|
|Wikitext|1,398,318|1,5483|41|4.04|38,410|9,603|0|24|



**==> picture [397 x 298] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 8: Histogram of abstractive summary length (# tokens) distribution for testing data of NQ,TQA, HotpotQA and Wikitext. 

**Abstractive Compressor** We implement the model using the Transformers (Wolf et al., 2019). We train abstractive summarizer with Adam optimizer (Kingma & Ba, 2014), using a batch size of 16, learning rate of 1e-5 and 1000 warmup steps for 3 epochs. 

17 

Table 6: Example abstractive and extractive compression on wikitext-103 dev set and NQ. 

|**Wikitext-103 Input**|**Wikitext-103 Input**|**Original Top 1 document**|
|---|---|---|
|present in most of||Sea of Crete” Sea of Crete The Sea of Crete (, ””Kritiko Pelagos””) or Cretan Sea, is a sea, part of the Aegean Sea, located in|
|the|Mediterranean|its Southern extremity. The sea stretches to the North of the island of Crete, East of the islands of Kythera and Antikythera,|
|Sea,|only missing|South of the Cyclades, and West of the Dodecanese islands of Rhodes, Karpathos and Kassos. The bounding sea to the|
|from|the section east|West is the Ionian Sea. To the Northwest is the Myrtoan Sea, a subdivision of the Mediterranean Sea that lies between the|
|of Crete, and along||Cyclades and Peloponnese. To the East-SE is the rest of the Mediterranean Sea,|
|only the north @-@|||
|west|coast of the||
|Black Sea|||
|**Method**||**Compressed document**|
|BoW||present Mediterranean Sea missing section east Crete along north west coast Black The Kritiko Pelagos Cretan sea part|
|||Aegean located Southern extremity stretches North island East islands Kythera Antikythera South Cyclades West Dodecanese|
|||Rhodes Karpathos Kassos bounding Ionian To Northwest Myrtoan subdivision lies Peloponnese SE rest|
|NE||Kythera the Aegean Sea the Ionian Sea Crete Southern South Rhodes the Myrtoan Sea Cretan Sea Antikythera Dodecanese|
|||Kassos Karpathos West the Black Sea & Sea of Crete Peloponnese the Mediterranean Sea Cyclades|
|Extractive compres-||To the Northwest is the Myrtoan Sea, a subdivision of the Mediterranean Sea that lies between the Cyclades and Peloponnese.|
|sion|||
|**NQ Input**||**Original Top 5 document**|
|who got the frst no-||receive a diploma, a medal and a document confrming the prize amount. Nobel Prize in Physics The Nobel Prize in Physics|
|bel prize in physics||() is a yearly award given by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences for those who have made the most outstanding|
|||contributions for mankind in the feld of physics. It is one of the fve Nobel Prizes established by the will of Alfred Nobel in|
|||1895 and awarded since 1901; the others being the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Nobel Prize in Literature, Nobel Peace Prize,|
|||and Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. The frst Nobel Prize in Physics was|
|||science, Ernest Lawrence won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1939. Lars Onsager won the 1968 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.|
|||Norman Borlaug, father of the Green Revolution, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970. Christian B. Anfnsen won the Nobel|
|||Prize for chemistry in 1972. Ivar Giaever won the Nobel Prize in Physics 1973. Carl Richard Hagen is noted for his work in|
|||physics. In engineering, Clayton Jacobson II is credited with the invention of the modern personal watercraft. Ole Singstad|
|||was a pioneer of underwater tunnels. Ole Evinrude invented the frst outboard motor with practical commercial application,|
|||recognizable today Nobel Prize in Physics The Nobel Prize in Physics () is a yearly award given by the Royal Swedish|
|||Academy of Sciences for those who have made the most outstanding contributions for mankind in the feld of physics. It is|
|||one of the fve Nobel Prizes established by the will of Alfred Nobel in 1895 and awarded since 1901; the others being the|
|||Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Nobel Prize in Literature, Nobel Peace Prize, and Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. The|
|||frst Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to physicist Wilhelm R00f6ntgen in recognition of the extraordinary services he|
|||was also awarded the Abel prize. In addition, eight ¨normaliens¨have gone on to receive the Nobel Prize in Physics: Claude|
|||Cohen-Tannoudji, Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, Albert Fert, Alfred Kastler, Gabriel Lippmann, Louis N|
|||00e9el, Jean Baptiste Perrin and Serge Haroche, while other ENS physicists include such major fgures as Paul Langevin,|
|||famous for developing Langevin dynamics and the Langevin equation. Alumnus Paul Sabatier won the Nobel Prize in|
|||Chemistry. A ranking of universities worldwide based on ratios of alumni to Nobel prize-winners published in 2016 by|
|||American scholars Stephen Hsu and Jonathan Wai placed ENS as the frst university worldwide, far|
|||rendered by the discovery of the remarkable rays (or x-rays). This award is administered by the Nobel Foundation and|
|||widely regarded as the most prestigious award that a scientist can receive in physics. It is presented in Stockholm at an|
|||annual ceremony on 10 December, the anniversary of Nobel’s death. Through 2018, a total of 209 individuals have been|
|||awarded the prize. Only three women (1.4% of laureates) have won the Nobel Prize in Physics: Marie Curie in 1903, Maria|
|||Goeppert Mayer in 1963, and Donna Strickland in 2018. Alfred Nobel, in his last will and testament, stated that his|
|**Method**||**Compressed document**|
|T5||Wilhelm R¨ontgen received the frst Nobel Prize in Physics in recognition of his extraordinary services. It is one of the fve|
|||Nobel Prizes established by Alfred Nobel in 1895 and awarded since 1901.|
|GPT-3.5-turbo||The frst Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to physicist Wilhelm R¨ontgen in 1901 for his discovery of the remarkable rays|
|||(or x-rays). Since then, 209 individuals have been awarded the prize, with only three women (1.4% of laureates) having won|
|||it.|



Table 7: Example input to the Flan-UL2 for NQ with in-context examples and retrieved documents. 

|**Dataset**|**Prompts**|
|---|---|
|NQ|who won a million on deal or no deal Answer: Tomorrow Rodriguez|
||who is the woman washing the car in cool hand luke Answer: Joy Harmon|
||who is the actor that plays ragnar on vikings Answer: Travis Fimmel|
||who said it’s better to have loved and lost Answer: Alfred , Lord Tennyson|
||name the frst indian woman to be crowned as miss world Answer: Reita Faria|
||Retrieved Docs|
||Question|
||Answer:|



18 

Table 8: Prompts used to generated summaries from GPT-3.5-turbo. query and docs represent the actual input query and retrieved documents. 

|**Dataset**|**Prompts**|
|---|---|
|NQ|Compress the information in the retrieved documents into a 2-sentence summary that|
||could be used to answer the question: Question: queryRetrieved documents: docs|
||Compressed documents:|
|TQA|Compress the information in the retrieved documents into a 2-sentence summary that|
||could be used to answer the question: Question: queryRetrieved documents: docs|
||Compressed documents:|
|HotpotQA|Source documents: docsQuestion: queryGenerate a reasoning chain to answer the|
||question:|
|Wikitext|Generate the next two sentences of the given query using the information from the|
||provided documents. _\_nSource Documents: docs _\_nQuery: query _\_n|
|Wikitext|Select sentences from the retrieved docs that are most likely be in the next sen-|
||tence._\_nSource Documents: docs _\_nQuery: query_\_n|
|Wikitext|Generate the next one sentence of the given query using the information from the|
||provided documents_\_nSource Documents: docs _\_nQuery: query _\_n|
|Wikitext|Summarize the information from the provided documents_\_nSource Documents: docs|
||_\_nQuery: query_\_n|



19 

Table 9: Case study of how compressing the retrieved documents helps the model to identify the right answer from NQ dev set. 

|_Question: host of the late show who was once a correspondentfor the daily show._|_Question: host of the late show who was once a correspondentfor the daily show._|_Gold answer: Stephen Colbert_|
|---|---|---|
|**Type**|**In-context documents**|**Predicted Answers**|
|None||Chelsea Handler|
|Top 5|by Conan O ´Brien, in 2009. Leno explained that he did not want to see a repeat of the hard|Samantha Bee|
||feelings and controversy that occurred when he was given the show over David Letterman||
||following Carson´s retirement in 1992. O ´Brien´s last ”Late Night” episode was taped on||
||February 20, 2009. Former Saturday Night Live alum Jimmy Fallon took over as host of||
||”Late Night with Jimmy Fallon” on March 2, 2009. The Colbert Report that aired four days a||
||week on Comedy Central from October 17, 2005, was hosted by Stephen Colbert, one of the||
||regulars on Comedy Central´s The Daily season as host began with a notable interview with||
||former British prime minister Tony Blair. The live interview occurred the night before a book||
||signing at Eason’s which attracted international attention when Blair was pelted with shoes||
||and eggs and successfully evaded an attempted citizen’s arrest on charges of war crimes. On||
||1 February 2013, Pat Kenny returned to host that night’s edition when Tubridy’s father died.||
||In 2015, Tubridy’s tone and choice of questions when interviewing Anti-Austerity Alliance||
||TD Paul Murphy in relation to the campaign against the implementation of a water tax was||
||much criticised. Opponents of the ’Michigan, interviewing Eminem. Colbert has been given||
||near-full control of the show, with little interference from CBS management in regard to||
||format. Colbert brought most of his staff from ”The Colbert Report” with him to ”The Late||
||Show”, as well as outsiders such as Brian Stack, who is best known for his work on Conan||
||O ´Brien´s programs, and Jon Stewart, former host of Colbert´s previous sister program ”The||
||Daily Show”, who is credited as executive producer. Colbert no longer uses the character he||
||had portrayed on ”The Colbert Report”, jokingly remarking to Jeb Bush that ”I used to play||
||a Show” has had three regular hosts: Gay Byrne, Pat Kenny and Ryan Tubridy. Frank Hall||
||deputised for Byrne for one season in the 1960s. There have been at least four occasions on||
||which another presenter has hosted the show. The frst was when Byrne became unexpectedly||
||and seriously ill. Frequent panelist Ted Bonner presented instead. The second time was||
||towards the end of a show about feminism, when Byrne ushered a young Marian Finucane||
||into his seat to present the remainder of the show. On another occasion, radio broadcaster||
||and former news reader Andy O ´Mahony replaced Byrne for an interview popular acclaim.||
||Colbert would host the program until he was chosen to replace David Letterman as host of||
||CBS´s ”Late Show” in 2015. Ed Helms, a former correspondent from 2002 to 2006, also||
||starred on NBC´s ”The Offce” and was a main character in the 2009 hit ”The Hangover”.||
||After flling in as host during Stewart´s two-month absence in the summer of 2013, John Oliver||
||went on to host his own show on HBO, ”Last Week Tonight with John Oliver”. In 2016,||
||former correspondent Samantha Bee launched her own late-night talk show ”Full Frontal||
||with Samantha Bee”. Bee´s husband Jason||
|GPT-3.5-turbo|Former Daily Show correspondent Stephen Colbert was chosen to replace David Letterman||
||as host of CBS’s ”Late Show” in 2015, while Ed Helms, a former correspondent from 2002||
||to 2006, also starred on NBC’s ”The Offce” and John Oliver, who flled in as host during Jon||
||Stewart’s absence in 2013, went on to host his own show on HBO.||
|T5 (ours)|Stephen Colbert was a former correspondent for The Daily Show and later became host|Stephen Colbert|
||of CBS’s ”Late Show” in 2015. He has since brought most of his staff from ”The Colbert||
||Report” with him to ”The Late Show”, with little interference from CBS management in||
||regard to format.||



20 

Table 10: Open-domain QA results on LLaMA-13B. We report the results of oracle compressions with Flan-UL2, the base model for the compressors, ( _Oracle w/ FLAN_ ) and the oracle compression results for LLaMA-13B. 

|||**NQ**|||**TQA**||**HotpotQA**|**HotpotQA**||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**In-context evidence**|**# tok**|**EM**|**F1**|**# tok**|**EM**|**F1**|**# tok**|**EM**|**F1**|
|-|0|30.89|40.73|0|65.00|71.18|0|24.20|34.50|
|**_RALM without compression_**||||||||||
|Top 1 document|132|33.35|43.13|136|66.62|73.10|138|34.40|44.17|
|Top 5 documents|660|37.04|47.60|667|70.61|77.51|684|37.00|47.11|
|**_Phrase / token level compression_**||||||||||
|Top 5 documents (BoW)|450|33.05|43.36|259|66.59|73.40|255|30.00|39.13|
|Top 5 documents (NE)|338|34.60|44.91|128|65.88|72.59|157|29.20|37.93|
|**_Extractive compression of top 5 documents_**||||||||||
|_Oracle_|31|56.62|68.89|31|84.61|80.46|69|42.20|51.34|
|_Oracle (w/ FLAN)_|34|40.89|50.06|32|68.52|74.96|70|35.20|45.13|
|Random|32|30.33|39.85|31|62.80|69.25|61|27.40|36.27|
|Contriever|36|32.52|42.01|40|65.88|72.44|78|34.60|43.99|
|Ours (init. w/ Contriever)|37|34.38|44.15|38|65.28|71.85|75|33.20|42.88|
|**_Abstractive compression of top 5_**||**_documents_**||||||||
|_Oracle_|50|45.60|84.87|38|74.37|79.83|98|41.40|51.54|
|_Oracle (w/ FLAN)_|51|38.98|49.40|37|69.86|76.46|102|35.40|46.17|
|T5|10|33.38|43.54|7|63.18|70.92|7|30.40|40.60|
|Ours (init. w/ T5)|36|36.32|46.10|32|66.27|73.12|81|30.80|40.61|



21 

Table 11: Example summaries and their manual analysis labels. See Table 12 for more example. 

|**Dataset**|**Model**|**Query, Passages and Summary**|**Evaluation**|
|---|---|---|---|
|NQ|Ours|**Question:** when will miraculous ladybug season 2 episode 12 come out|Not faithful, Comprehensive|
|||**Passages:** 2016 on TVNZ’s TV2. In Japan, Disney Channel streamed the episode ”Stormy||
|||Weather” through its mobile application on 1 July 2018, before the offcial premiere on 23||
|||July in the same year. The second season premiere is scheduled for a global launch around||
|||September–November 2017 in Europe, At a panel at San Diego Comic-Con 2017, it was||
|||announced that the second season would have its North American release on Netfix in||
|||December 2017, with 13 episodes to be released. KidsClick will start airing season 2 of this||
|||show in the US starting 30 August 2018, marking the frst time that Korea on 1 September||
|||2015 on EBS1. In the United States, the series debuted on Nickelodeon on 6 December. In||
|||the United Kingdom and Ireland, the show premiered on 30 January 2016 on Disney Channel.||
|||A Christmas special was released in 2016 and the second season premiered in French on||
|||TF1 and in English on Disney Channel UK in 2017. Netfix acquired the U.S. video-on-||
|||demand streaming rights and further seasons are in production. Set in modern-day Paris, the||
|||series focuses on teenagers Marinette Dupain-Cheng and Adrien Agreste. When evil arises,||
|||Marinette transforms into her superhero persona Ladybug, while Adrien transforms rights in||
|||Europe, Eastern Europe and Scandinavia, and free-to-air rights in Spain, Germany, Russia||
|||and Turkey. South Korea was the frst country to premiere ”Ladybug”, with girl group Fiestar||
|||to sing its translated theme song. It aired on 1 September 2015 on EBS1, and ran for 13||
|||episodes until November 2015, with repeats through February 2016, and its second half of||
|||the season airing from 1 March 2016. SK Broadband, having participated in the production,||
|||provided the episodes on video on demand exclusively to subscribers of their IPTV platform||
|||B TV, about a half-hour following the South Korean broadcast of Season 2 of this show airing||
|||on American over-the-air television. A third season is also in development. On 22 January||
|||2018, Zag posted on Instagram that the crew was working on a fourth and ffth season. On 31||
|||August premiered a new series with Miraculous: Tales of Ladybug & Cat Noir which this||
|||time is in chibi style. On 5 September 2018, Skydance Media has acquired the live-action||
|||flm and live-action television rights. Kimberly Cooper, a blog writer who has contributed||
|||to news media such as ”The Huffngton Post”, wrote that the show has inspired teens and||
|||adults to create Channel on 1 November 2016. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the show||
|||premiered on 30 January 2016 on Disney Channel The frst series was also made available to||
|||Netfix subscribers in the UK. Among the free-to-air terrestrial television broadcasters in the||
|||Republic of Ireland, Raidi´o Teilif´ıs ´Eireann premiered the show in 2018 on RT´E2’s teenage||
|||programming block, TRT´E. In Australia, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation released||
|||the show on its ABC iview streaming service on 1 January 2016, and premiered the show on||
|||its linear channel ABC3 on 22 March 2016. In New Zealand, the show premiered on 27 April||
|||**Summary:** Miraculous Ladybug season 2 episode 12 is scheduled for release in December||
|||2017 on Netfix in North America. The show premiered in South Korea on 1 September 2015||
|||and has since been aired in various countries, including in the United States, the UK, and||
|||New Zealand.||
|TQA|Ours|**Question:** In which novel does Flora Poste move to live with her relatives, the Starkadders,|Faithful, Not comprehensive|
|||in Sussex?||
|||**Passages:** to be a writer, decides that the only way for her to live whilst researching her||
|||writing is to stay with relatives. Her city-based relatives show no interest, so she sends letters||
|||to her country relatives. There are a few responses, most of them unsuitable, but one is||
|||intriguing. Flora decides to stay for a while with the Starkadder family on their rundown farm.||
|||The Starkadders are an assortment of rustic, uncouth, and truly eccentric characters, each of||
|||whom has a hurdle (be it physical, emotional, or spiritual) to overcome before reaching his||
|||or her potential. Flora quickly realises that, relatives at the isolated Cold Comfort Farm in||
|||the fctional village of Howling in Sussex. The inhabitants of the farm – Aunt Ada Doom,||
|||the Starkadders, and their extended family and workers – feel obliged to take her in to||
|||atone for an unspecifed wrong once done to her father. As is typical in a certain genre of||
|||romantic 19th-century and early 20th-century literature, each of the farm’s inhabitants has||
|||some long-festering emotional problem caused by ignorance, hatred, or fear, and the farm is||
|||badly run. Flora, being a level-headed, urban woman in the dandy tradition, determines that||
|||she must Have Always Been Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm””, set several years later and||
|||based on ””Conference at Cold Comfort Farm””, when Flora is married with several children,||
|||was broadcast. In 1995 a television flm was produced which was generally well-received,||
|||with critics. Janet Maslin in the ””New York Times”” wrote that this screen version ””gets||
|||it exactly right””. The flm starred Kate Beckinsale as Flora, Joanna Lumley as her friend||
|||and mentor Mary Smiling, Rufus Sewell as Seth, Ian McKellen as Amos Starkadder, Eileen||
|||Atkins as Judith, Stephen Fry as Mybug, Miriam Margolyes as Mrs. Beetle, and Angela||
|||Thorne as dies suddenly of a heart attack and Lady Place is rented out, with the view that||
|||Titus, once grown up, will return to the home and run the business. After twenty years of||
|||being a live-in aunt Laura fnds herself feeling increasingly stifed both by her obligations to||
|||the family and by living in London. When shopping for fowers on the Moscow Road, Laura||
|||decides she wishes to move to the Chiltern Hills and, buying a guide book and map to the||
|||area, she picks the village of Great Mop as her new home. Against the wishes of her extended||
|||respects to her brother. Agnis is moving to the ancestral family home in Newfoundland,||
|||which has been abandoned for 44 years. Realizing that Quoyle is at a total loss through grief,||
|||she frst offers to stay a few more days and help him through the crisis, and then persuades||
|||him to move with her. While struggling to rebuild his life, fx up the derelict house, and care||
|||for his daughter, Quoyle meets local resident Wavey Prowse, a widow who has a pre-teen||
|||boy with a learning disability. Wavey’s son and Quoyle’s daughter become friends, while the||
|||two adults become friends,||
|||**Summary:** Flora Poste moves to live with her relatives, the Starkadders, on their rundown||
|||farm in Sussex. The Starkadders are eccentric characters with various obstacles to overcome.||



22 

Table 12: Example summaries and their manual analysis labels (continued). 

|**Dataset**|**Model**|**Query, Passages and Summary**|**Evaluation**|
|---|---|---|---|
|HotpotQA|GPT-3.5|**Question:** The composer of the music for the ballet ”The Seasons” was the director of what|Not Faithful, Comprehensive|
|||organization from 1905 to 1928?||
|||**Passages:** The Seasons (ballet) The Seasons (, ””Vremena goda””; also ) is an allegorical||
|||ballet in one act, four scenes, by the choreographer Marius Petipa, with music by Alexander||
|||Glazunov, his Op. 67. The work was composed in 1899 and frst performed by the Imperial||
|||Ballet in 1900 in St. Petersburg, Russia. The score for Marius Petipa’s ””Les Saisons””||
|||(””The Seasons””) was originally intended to have been composed by the Italian composer||
|||and conductor Riccardo Drigo, who was Glazunov’s colleague and close friend. Since||
|||1886, Drigo held the posts of director of music and ””chef d’orchestre”” to the Ballet of the||
|||harmonium, guitar and even mandolin). ””The Seasons”” was commenced shortly after the||
|||premiere of Tchaikovsky’s First Piano Concerto, and continued while he was completing||
|||his frst ballet, ””Swan Lake””. In 1875, Nikolay Matveyevich Bernard, the editor of the||
|||St. Petersburg music magazine ””Nouvellist””, commissioned Tchaikovsky to write 12||
|||short piano pieces, one for each month of the year. Bernard suggested a subtitle for each||
|||month’s piece. Tchaikovsky accepted the commission and all of Bernard’s subtitles, and||
|||in the December 1875 edition of the magazine, readers were promised a new Tchaikovsky||
|||piece each month throughout 1876. The January and February pieces The Seasons (Cage)||
|||The Seasons is a ballet with music by John Cage and choreography by Merce Cunningham,||
|||frst performed in 1947. It was Cage’s frst piece for orchestra and also the frst to use what||
|||Cage later called the ””gamut”” technique, albeit in an early form. Cage composed the music||
|||in early 1947, in the midst of working on ””Sonatas and Interludes””. A piano version was||
|||frst completed, and an orchestral arrangement followed. Cage dedicated ””The Seasons”” to||
|||Lincoln Kirstein. The ballet was premiered on May 17, 1947 by the Ballet Society (by which||
|||the work was commissioned) at a new orchestra version. Morton Gould retained the piano||
|||part for many of the pieces and orchestrated the work throughout, recording it with himself||
|||at the piano in 1951 for American Columbia. In 1965, Kurt-Heinz Stolze orchestrated a||
|||number of the pieces as part of the music for John Cranko’s ballet ””Onegin””. More recent||
|||orchestral versions have been produced by David Matthews (for symphony orchestra), Peter||
|||Breiner (for solo violin and symphony orchestra), and Georgii Cherkin (for solo piano and||
|||symphony orchestra). French composer Philippe Sarde arranged the Barcarolle as a main||
|||theme for the 1988 movie ””The Bear””. Slava Cranko was not invited to direct, and Sir John||
|||Gielgud was brought in. Prosecuted for homosexual activity, Cranko left the UK for Stuttgart,||
|||and in 1961 was appointed director of the Stuttgart Ballet, where he assembled a group of||
|||talented performers such as Marcia Hayd´ee, Egon Madsen, Richard Cragun, Birgit Keil||
|||and Suzanne Hanke. Among his following choreographies were ””Romeo and Juliet”” by||
|||William Shakespeare in 1962, set to music by Prokofev, ””Onegin”” in 1965, an adaptation||
|||of the verse novel ””Eugene Onegin”” by Alexander Pushkin, set to music by Tchaikovsky||
|||(mainly ””The Seasons””), orchestrated by Kurt-Heinz Stolze, ””The Taming||
|||**Summary:** 1. The composer of the music for the ballet ””The Seasons”” is Alexander||
|||Glazunov.||
|||2. Alexander Glazunov composed the music for the ballet ””The Seasons”” in 1899.||
|||3. The ballet ””The Seasons”” was frst performed by the Imperial Ballet in 1900.||
|||4. From 1905 to 1928, the director of an organization was Marius Petipa.||
|||5. Marius Petipa was the choreographer of the ballet ””The Seasons””.||
|||6. Therefore, the composer of the music for the ballet ””The Seasons”” was the director of||
|||the Imperial Ballet from 1905 to 1928.||



23 

